01:04:59 <bkardell_> bkardell_ has joined #tagmem
06:35:17 <SteveF> SteveF has joined #tagmem
07:42:08 <darobin> darobin has joined #tagmem
07:48:48 <timbl> timbl has joined #tagmem
07:54:53 <dka> dka has joined #tagmem
07:59:35 <Domenic> Been waiting for the bus for 25 minutes uggggh
08:08:24 <Domenic> Wat the bus just totally skipped this bus stop
08:08:36 <Domenic> Ragequit reverting to the tube
08:09:08 <dka> dka has joined #tagmem
08:37:46 <twirl> twirl has joined #tagmem
08:39:48 <dka> yves we are going to start soon can you join?
08:40:02 <dka> trackbot, start meeting
08:40:04 <trackbot> RRSAgent, make logs public
08:40:04 <Zakim> Zakim has joined #tagmem
08:40:06 <trackbot> Zakim, this will be TAG
08:40:06 <Zakim> I do not see a conference matching that name scheduled within the next hour, trackbot
08:40:07 <trackbot> Meeting: Technical Architecture Group Teleconference
08:40:07 <trackbot> Date: 30 September 2014
08:43:47 <mnot> mnot has joined #tagmem
08:44:16 <dka> Scribe: Mark
08:44:23 <dka> scribenick: mnot
08:44:27 <dka> Topic: EME
08:45:04 <dka> q+
08:46:55 <dka> q-
08:47:34 <mnot> Dominic: Spec editor came to us at the last meeting and asked for guidance on EME.
08:49:47 <mnot> Dominic: I worked out a proposal to make EME more "webby" -- more conformant to shared values of privacy, platform independence
08:50:02 <mnot> Dominic: I submitted a revised version of our opinion, stating concerns rather than solutions
08:50:18 <mnot> Dominic: Sergey reviewed, accepted pull request, then sent a followup which we need to discuss
08:51:01 <mnot> Dominic: Also, we got a reply from Mark Watson (Netflix) on list, whic is good. His feedback was mostly about phrasing, softening things, etc. which I think we can address and is worth doing.
08:51:26 <mnot> Dominic: It'd be great to issue this as a finding that can be referenced as a TAG opinion when closing bugs on the spec.
08:52:14 <mnot> s/Dominic/Domenic/g
08:52:30 <twirl> s/whic is/which is
08:54:22 <mnot> [ group looks at document ]
08:54:47 <twirl> https://github.com/w3ctag/eme/blob/master/EME%20Opinion.md
09:00:26 <mnot> Domenic: Sergey has an alternative design that he'll take to the group as potential future work.
09:00:57 <mnot> Domenic: EME has momentum; it's shipping in most browsers, vendor-prefixed; we're just trying to limit the damage.
09:01:28 <mnot> Domenic: We may still get EMEv2 or DRMv2 e.g., based upon public key cryptography, but that's a multi-year effort.
09:01:45 <mnot> TimBL: I'd encouarge Sergey to do that.
09:02:29 <twirl> Further reading: https://github.com/w3ctag/eme/pull/8
09:03:08 <twirl> And http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2014Sep/0039.html
09:04:25 <mnot> [ group reviews pull request ]
09:05:07 <mnot> Domenic: Sergey proposed sections on fraud prevention, accessability, fair use, anti-circumvention
09:05:20 <mnot> Domenic: My opinion is that these are outside the scope of criminal activity
09:05:25 <mnot> TimBL: I disagree
09:05:38 <mnot> Peter: The whole point of DRM is to prevent criminal behaviour
09:06:08 <mnot> TimBL: You don't have to say "fraud"; it could be "attack"
09:06:21 <mnot> Domenic: That could be OK; "attack vector" is better
09:07:01 <mnot> Sergey: I agree with Domenic; this shouldn't be limited to criminal behaviour. I'm 100% sure that some vendors will give you a license with additional restrictions. So let's make it clear that the user has to be able to read the license.
09:07:04 <JeniT> JeniT has joined #tagmem
09:08:13 <mnot> TimBL: ... or you could leave affordances for regulators so that they can make appropriate limitations.
09:08:25 <mnot> Domenic: We should be concerned about the user, and phrase it that way.
09:08:41 <mnot> Domenic: The main point is that the user should be able to inspect the license, as this helps prevent attacks.
09:08:55 <mnot> Domenic: "Fraud" is less concrete than "attacks"
09:09:58 <mnot> ACTION: Domenic and Sergey to re-phrase "fraud" as "attacks"
09:09:58 <trackbot> Created ACTION-876 - And sergey to re-phrase "fraud" as "attacks" [on Domenic Denicola - due 2014-10-07].
09:10:13 <mnot> Next - Accessibility
09:10:48 <mnot> Domenic: I don't think this works. It's saying that in a hypothetical future when they can translate video, we should punch a hole in EME for that technology.
09:11:11 <mnot> Domenic: I would rather approach this as saying that text tracks should not be encrypted. I have feedback that this is feasible and not highly controversial.
09:11:27 <mnot> Domenic: If we want videos to be accessible, we'd need a huge societal / legal effort.
09:11:39 <mnot> Peter: There are high contrast modes, e.g., those applicable to images.
09:11:59 <mnot> Peter: The video stream shouldn't be lopped out of that, e.g., if the browser is in high-contrast mode.
09:12:16 <mnot> Peter: A solution could be that the requirements can be pushed down.
09:12:37 <mnot> Domenic: If we soften it to "The normal accessibility modes of videos should be available."
09:13:39 <mnot> Sergey: [ draws diagram CDN - CDM - Hardware with pipe between CDM and Hardware to "System Service" ]
09:14:01 <mnot> Domenic: System services could give instructions to CDMs to help accessibility
09:14:06 <mnot> Peter: It could be a filter that has to be applied
09:14:20 <mnot> Domenic: these are specific technical solutions; there could be others
09:14:25 <mnot> Sergey: So we just add a note
09:14:29 <mnot> Domenic: yes.
09:14:56 <mnot> ACTION: Domenic to add a note generally encouraging accessibility in EME opinion
09:14:56 <trackbot> Created ACTION-877 - Add a note generally encouraging accessibility in eme opinion [on Domenic Denicola - due 2014-10-07].
09:15:09 <mnot> Next - fair use
09:15:54 <mnot> Sergey: Amazon displays books in the browser, and you can't copy it. The HTML was a complete mess of iframes, etc.
09:16:05 <mnot> Sergey: In a short time, everything will be like that.
09:16:46 <mnot> Domenic: I worked for bn.com and we did ebooks. E.g., you were granted 45 pages of copying every thirty days.
09:17:00 <mnot> Torgo: Because it's important in an academic context
09:17:03 <mnot> Domenic: yes
09:17:15 <mnot> Torgo: The thing about fair use is that it's specific to jurisdiction, and varies quite a bit.
09:17:19 <mnot> Torgo: IANAL
09:17:41 <mnot> Torgo: AIUI the EU doesn't have a concept of Fair Use
09:17:45 <mnot> TimBL: Yes they do
09:17:58 <mnot> JeniT: It was never there as far as I'm aware, at least called "fair use"
09:18:09 <mnot> Torgo radiates joy
09:18:26 <mnot> Torgo: There's work going on on a EU copyright overhaul
09:18:37 <mnot> Torgo: My point was that it's not universal
09:19:05 <mnot> Torgo: DRM stops users from doing things that are legal any way; e.g., excerpt of a video, which is legal under many copyright laws
09:19:46 <mnot> Sergey: video companies think that all copying of videos is illegal
09:20:33 <mnot> Domenic: Do we want to soften this to something like "We know that DRM and Fair Use have been in conflict, and would encorage discussion"
09:20:38 <mnot> [ derision erupts ]
09:21:30 <mnot> Torgo: My thinking is that it'd be useful to say something like "DRM often foils people from doing something that's legal for them to do, according to their copyright law. This issue is not addressed in this document."
09:21:53 <mnot> Domenic: That's only useful from the perspective that Tim brought up -- that future lawmakers might find it useful.
09:22:11 <mnot> JeniT: Does that even make sense as a position though? Lots of tools don't let us do things that are legal for us to do.
09:22:35 <mnot> Torgo: They restrict you from doing something that you could otherwise do on the Web, under the pretense that you can't do this because it's illegal.
09:23:23 <mnot> TimBL: We talk a lot about UI quality and principles. In a way, to say we're introducing something that restricts the UI is a UI issue.
09:24:17 <mnot> TimBL: What does the TAG think about web sites that add their own link and attribution when you copy?
09:24:21 <mnot> Domenic: I think it's horrible
09:26:40 <mnot> Peter: We can't technically restrict people from being annoying; we'd shut down the entire web.
09:27:00 <mnot> JeniT: I think the usability aspect is important
09:27:08 <mnot> Domenic: How can we say that constructively?
09:27:36 <mnot> Peter: It's breaking the whole "view source" model on the Web
09:27:49 <mnot> Domenic: That's a can of worms
09:28:05 <mnot> Peter: There's a lack of developer tools; EME could prevent them from coming about
09:28:14 <mnot> Domenic: That argument means "no CDM"
09:28:27 <mnot> Peter: Or it means that the CDM exposes the content in a trusted way
09:28:36 <mnot> Domenic: The point of DRM is that there is no trust.
09:28:43 <mnot> Domenic: That might be a good motivator for DRMv2
09:28:54 <mnot> Domenic: Kill it?
09:29:02 <mnot> [ group seems to agree ]
09:29:24 <mnot> Next - Anti-Cirumvention law
09:29:52 <mnot> Domenic: This is an interesting one; not sure what to do with it.
09:30:47 <mnot> mnot: what vulnerabilities would they be looking for?
09:31:00 <mnot> Domenic: Like anything that ties into the OS
09:31:07 <mnot> Peter: it has low-level access to the hardware
09:31:39 <mnot> mnot: This seems like a purely legal problem
09:31:47 <mnot> Domenic: agreed, but it's a good problem to bring up
09:32:00 <mnot> TimBL: why is this a legal problem?
09:32:34 <Domenic> mnot: the problem is stated that there's legal exposure for people who try to do penetration testing. that's in the legal realm
09:32:48 <Domenic> timbl: so it's a problem that should be solved by changing the law, not changing the technology?
09:32:59 <Domenic> mnot: i don't see how else
09:33:28 <Domenic> timbl: well, if the whole setup was different (e.g. open source DRM), it would no longer be a legal problem
09:33:43 <Domenic> mnot: but that's a pretty radical thing to put into the document
09:34:06 <Domenic> timbl: agreed, not at this point, although a radical re-engineering is still a good idea over a longer timescale
09:34:22 <Domenic> timbl: but we should raise the concern
09:34:49 <Domenic> mnot: indeed, if only to give affordances to lawymakers later
09:35:15 <mnot> Domenic: My intuition is that you couldn't design a spec to make it not possible to sue (sergey's suggestion)
09:35:38 <mnot> Domenic: However, we could have something like an equivalent to the patent policy; "I won't go after pen testers"
09:35:45 <mnot> Domenic: We'd need to talk to the AB about that
09:36:27 <mnot> TimBL: AB might not be appropriate. It's worth pointing out that there are other possible protocols; it's half legal and half engineering
09:36:45 <mnot> Domenic: I only suggest the AB because they have experience with the patent policy.
09:37:04 <mnot> Domenic: I do like this feedback and suggest we do something with it; not sure where it belongs.
09:37:12 <mnot> Torgo: I like the idea of a covenant.
09:37:14 <mnot> mnot: +1
09:38:09 <mnot> TimBL: Using SMTP as a model; suppose that the mail RFCs said that conforming use of the To: header is that it's used to give a functional address for the social entity that sends the e-mail. A conforming user is one that does these things...
09:38:21 <mnot> TimBL: You then leave it open for regulators to use that.
09:38:36 <mnot> Domenic: Making spec into certifications is a big thing
09:38:39 <mnot> TimBL: That's different
09:42:42 <mnot> Domenic: I think we should remove this from the document, but draft a communication to the AB asking for collaboration
09:42:51 <mnot> mnot: Will it do harm in this document?
09:43:02 <mnot> Torgo: Then we can point to this when we talk to the AB
09:43:20 <mnot> Domenic: I think it needs to be separated. A lot of this is about concrete restrictions on the API; this is a separate concern.
09:43:33 <mnot> Peter: This fits under the category of security concerns.
09:43:38 <mnot> Domenic: good point
09:43:53 <mnot> Domenic: We'd want to modify it into "We'll be investigating this..."
09:44:03 <mnot> Peter: Say that this is a hole that we don't want to leave open
09:44:20 <mnot> mnot: As long as we make it clear that we don't expect them to solve this problem.
09:44:44 <mnot> Domenic: I appreciate the notion that this could be built on top of web crypto, but don't think it's directly relevant
09:45:22 <mnot> group resolves to rephrase, make it clear that this is an action for the TAG, not EME; make it clear that this is a security risk, put under security section ]
09:46:10 <mnot> Looking at Mark Watson's feedback
09:58:17 <mnot> Domenic: There are four points.
09:58:44 <mnot> Domenic: First - phrasing of "The ability of the CDM to potentially run arbitrary code is a hole in the web platform's security model."
09:58:55 <mnot> Domenic: He has a point; e.g., Flash
09:59:26 <mnot> Domenic: OTOH it's aritrary from the standpoint of the user, and opaque to the user
09:59:48 <mnot> Domenic: We can either change from "arbitrary" to "unspecified" or add a sentence giving context
10:00:19 <mnot> Sergey: With Flash, SWF are a set of instructions. With EME, we don't know that video is just data, not code.
10:00:37 <mnot> Domenic: So restrict what data goes in and out?
10:00:42 <mnot> Sergey: Yes, so only data goes in and out
10:00:56 <mnot> Domenic: That seems to go against years of computer science
10:01:10 <mnot> Domenic: Oh, you're saying that frames shouldn't smuggle code?
10:01:13 <mnot> Sergey: Yes
10:01:35 <mnot> Domenic: There is no restriction that it is video presently?
10:02:05 <mnot> Sergey: They're talking about using standardised form of encrypted video. But the license response could contain instructions for the CDM.
10:02:35 <mnot> Domenic: I think this is worth bringing up in our reply to Mark; it may not change what we put in the document though. I haven't talked with many people about the license response.
10:03:39 <mnot> Domenic: Second concern - "As part of interoperability, EME should not provide APIs that are designed to allow restriction of content to one platform and/or key system."
10:04:09 <mnot> Domenic: We should do a more thorough investigation by what is meant by this.
10:04:23 <mnot> Peter: Isn't it the opposite, that EME is failing to provide universal APIs?
10:04:31 <mnot> Domenic: I think we covered that pretty well.
10:04:40 <mnot> Domenic: More investigation needed.
10:05:17 <mnot> Domenic: Third concern - "While certain key systems may only be supported on certain platforms, and certain content may only be available with certain key systems..."
10:05:28 <mnot> Domenic: I'm not sure what he's concerned about here.
10:05:52 <mnot> mnot: he seems to be just noting something.
10:06:49 <mnot> Domenic: Fourth concern - "We understand that designing a DRM system for the web brings along robustness requirements that are unlike those of most Web APIs..."
10:07:17 <mnot> Domenic: My take is that this is not very relevant.
10:07:28 <mnot> TimBL: He's saying "Don't focus on robustness."
10:07:57 <mnot> TimBL: Maybe he's saying that people should be allowed to think about systems that don't have robustness
10:08:37 <mnot> Domenic: I want to push back because I don't see this expressed in the EME document
10:09:17 <mnot> mnot: We're not writing a requirements document; it doesn't have to be complete
10:09:30 <mnot> Domenic: Maybe he's concerned that we're mischaracterising it
10:10:13 <mnot> [ side conversation between Domenic and Sergey ]
10:10:41 <mnot> Domenic: Tim's point is that we shouldn't say "necessary for robustness" as if that were a feature for all DRM
10:10:53 <mnot> Domenic: ... but EME has chosen to address DRM in this way
10:11:07 <mnot> Peter: You could address this by removing the word "robustness" from that sentence
10:11:22 <mnot> Domenic: OK
10:11:37 <mnot> Domenic: I like this, because it addresses Tim's and mark's comments
10:12:07 <mnot> Domenic: Or say "Robustness or IPR"
10:12:18 <mnot> Torgo: I like Peter's suggestion more
10:12:26 <mnot> Torgo: Keep silent on the motivation
10:13:16 <mnot> Domenic: That's it for EME
10:14:53 <timbl> http://tag.w3ctag.org
10:15:07 <plinss> https://pad.w3ctag.org/
10:15:09 <timbl> “
10:15:09 <timbl> The web address you've requested doesn't exist
10:15:10 <timbl> The web address you have requested is incorrect or does not exist. You could try amending the spelling or check the web address.
10:15:11 <timbl> “
10:15:12 <timbl> Pppht
10:18:33 <mnot> [ group agreed to send this as spec feedback ]
10:19:14 <timbl> https://pad.w3ctag.org/p/eme
10:33:23 <Domenic> { "&" : "&"} ===> <json:string name="&amp;">&amp;</json:string>
10:34:24 <Domenic> ScribeNick: Domenic
10:34:37 <Domenic> mnot: we've talked about captive portals a lot in the IETF and elsewhere
10:34:57 <Domenic> mnot: if we wanted to try to do something, we could probably get the right people from places like Cisco, Microsoft, Apple, the browsers, ...
10:35:07 <Domenic> mnot: where we're at now, is, "what can be realistically done?"
10:35:31 <Domenic> mnot: we've had preliminary discussions mapping out the problem space, figuring out back-compat constraints
10:35:41 <Domenic> mnot: big question is what is the right layer to interpose these things
10:35:54 <Domenic> mnot: we have a status code in HTTP for this, but you can't intercept that when you go over HTTPS
10:36:14 <Domenic> mnot: anecdotally I've been seeing fewer captive portals, just WiFi passwords
10:36:19 <Domenic> (the room disagrees)
10:36:51 <Domenic> mnot: a common use case is just showing some text before a user connects
10:36:54 <Yves> well, ssl should show certificate issues if connected to a captive portal
10:37:38 <Domenic> (discussion of various problems with bad cert errors upon connecting to a network and how this is only getting worse)
10:38:11 <Domenic> timbl: i could see OS designers lying, saying "there is no network," until they can detect actual internet
10:38:30 <Domenic> mnot: yes, but there is a war between the networks and the OSs, some captive portals want to overcome captive portal detection
10:38:43 <Domenic> dka: this is why apple has 100 different domains to detect this...
10:39:15 <Domenic> mnot: it's only getting worse because Apple is doing MAC address randomization, causing captive portals to lose their ability to remember you
10:40:34 <Domenic> mnot: low hanging fruit would just be documenting what OSs do right now
10:40:41 <Domenic> timbl: what would it look like to design this from scratch?
10:40:46 <Domenic> mnot: we need a transition stategy
10:40:59 <Domenic> timbl: no, I'm more interested in benevolent places like MIT
10:41:12 <Domenic> mnot: my gut is if you wanted to do this from scratch it would be part of 802.11
10:41:22 <Domenic> plinss: what about DHCP?
10:41:29 <Domenic> mnot: we're trying to get away from that; inherently insecure
10:41:50 <plinss> s/plinss:/timbl:/
10:42:13 <Domenic> timbl: "here's your IP address; it's not going to work until you visit this web address"
10:42:29 <Yves> DHCP is insecure, but still you configure your interface (and dns settings) using dhcp replies
10:42:38 <Domenic> mnot: but because of how DHCP works, anyone can announce that to you, so it's a great way to phish someone in a coffeeshop
10:43:11 <Domenic> timbl: are we ratholing?
10:43:20 <Domenic> mnot: the problem is captive portals are full of ratholes like this because it's full-stack
10:43:51 <Domenic> timbl: i'm interested in solving this for enterprises and universities...
10:44:02 <Domenic> mnot: well universities have alreayd solved this with e.g. eduroam...
10:44:13 <Domenic> plinss: (but it's still a crappy implementation)
10:47:26 <dka> http://www.btplc.com/news/articles/showarticle.cfm?articleid=%7B2b5f7e38-2551-47d6-9d01-21f44cb25d26%7D
10:47:48 <Domenic> plinss: opportunity to invite some of the other parties around TPAC?
10:47:57 <Domenic> mnot: I was thinking more a full-day workshop. And TPAC is only a couple weeks away
10:52:47 <mnot> https://github.com/httpwg/http-extensions/wiki/CaptivePortals
10:52:51 <timbl> timbl has joined #tagmem
10:52:57 <Domenic> plinss: I'd like to see an end result of "ideally, here's a spec for a good captive portal"
10:55:27 <Domenic> (discussion of a "brand" for well-designed captive portals and related stuff)
10:55:44 <Domenic> mnot: my gut feeling is that this is a long-term thing
10:55:53 <Domenic> mnot: perhaps an event of early to mid next year
10:56:28 <Domenic> plinss: perhaps adjacent to EWS in April
11:02:03 <Domenic> mnot: concrete next steps---work on the wiki, talk to people to set up a meeting, maybe come up with a plan for a plan
11:10:42 <Zakim> Zakim has left #tagmem
11:31:49 <timbl> Hitler reacts to the HTML5 URL normative reference controversy - See more at: http://meemsy.com/v/22036#sthash.I7RqFP9V.dpuf
11:32:04 <timbl> The last bit was snuck in by the sit e— how?
11:47:05 <twirl> ScribeNick: twirl
11:51:09 <dka> Starting Up Again
11:51:17 <dka> Topic: Tooling / Github / Etc…
11:51:54 <twirl> mnot: <presented his concept of TAG homepage>
11:55:06 <twirl> mnot: <shows script which uses Github API to get all issues>
11:56:42 <twirl> mnot: <reviewing w3ctag repositories>
11:58:19 <twirl> mnot: Markdown rules
11:59:25 <twirl> mnot: The hardest decision is doing something with our home page
12:00:06 <twirl> dka: I think it's a high priority task
12:01:10 <twirl> dka: EME is a good example, it's actually spec review but it's not in spec reviews repo
12:01:38 <twirl> mnot: Chairs should control repo creation
12:01:47 <twirl> [ disagreement ]
12:02:48 <twirl> [ mnot is very persuasive ]
12:03:57 <twirl> [ discussion on whether github wiki is better than TAG Wiki or not ]
12:06:33 <twirl> [ discussion on using wiki vs repos ]
12:07:01 <twirl> mnot: Repos could be used offline
12:07:20 <bkardell_> bkardell_ has joined #tagmem
12:07:57 <twirl> mnot: And github wiki too :)
12:08:15 <twirl> mnot: github wiki is a separate repo
12:09:49 <twirl> [ mnot explains how HTTP2 repos are organized ]
12:15:03 <twirl> [ discussion on organizing indexes ]
12:17:26 <twirl> dka: proposes (a) move to tag.w3.org -> w3tag.github.io, (b) move meeting organization to github, (c) move minutes to github
12:19:05 <twirl> (d) move all current work to main page, (e) move EME to Spec Reviews repo, (f) clean up repos, (g) backup everything, (h) elaborate policy on repo creation
12:20:05 <twirl> mnot: are we ok with breaking URLs?
12:21:18 <twirl> timbl: I think its important to preserve URLs
12:21:26 <twirl> s/its/it's
12:22:23 <twirl> [ dka explains our current policy ]
12:24:08 <twirl> plinss: let's proxy all URLs into W3C space
12:25:36 <twirl> [ timbl explains how to convert cvs subtree ]
12:27:20 <twirl> [ plinss explains how to synchronize github and w3c space ]
12:29:06 <twirl> plinss: Minutes URLs MUST be preserved
12:30:07 <twirl> dka: Having our documents in github, having clear repos are good ideas
12:30:41 <twirl> dka: But I'm very concerned about preserving URLs history
12:32:36 <twirl> [ general discussion ]
12:35:29 <twirl> dka: We could put on our home page everything which changes rarely, and have a separate gh-page for current work
12:36:37 <twirl> mnot: I could try to convert our old stuff
12:40:47 <twirl> [ discussion on CVS -> git conversion ]
12:41:19 <twirl> mnot: what about gh issue tracker?
12:41:37 <twirl> mnot: two trackers are confusing
12:42:06 <twirl> [ historical joke from dka ]
12:42:07 <bkardell_> ...But GH is very Dev friendly
12:42:59 <twirl> dka: the problem is that each repo has its own tracker, so you can't see all w3c tag issues
12:43:51 <twirl> mnot: let's use Arch tracker for long-living issues
12:44:44 <twirl> [ discussion on confusing trackers ]
12:45:21 <JeniT> all issues: https://github.com/organizations/w3ctag/dashboard/issues/repos
12:46:56 <twirl> dka: let's setup a repository for "TAG" issues
12:47:18 <twirl> dka: and close w3 issues
12:48:42 <twirl> mnot: what to do with spec reviews wiki page? let's put in README in specreviews repo
12:49:34 <twirl> [ dka tells the story about agendas in cvs ]
12:50:04 <twirl> dka: let's move agendas to github
12:51:02 <twirl> mnot: what's the metrics of success?
12:51:12 <twirl> [ memes, videos, number of documents ... ]
12:54:27 <twirl> Topic: Spec Reviews
12:54:44 <twirl> Domenic: we were asked to review WebApps specs
12:55:43 <twirl> Domenic: WebCrypto is done
12:55:54 <twirl> twirl: Web Animations review is done
12:56:56 <twirl> mnot: HTTP2 reviewed
12:58:05 <twirl> [ reviewing w3c issue tracker ]
12:58:45 <twirl> mnot: Get off My Lawn: closed
13:02:00 <twirl> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2014Jun/0004.html
13:02:19 <twirl> http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2014Jun/0002.html
13:02:43 <twirl> mnot: CSS Regions?
13:04:57 <twirl> [ plinss explains elements flows ]
13:08:08 <twirl> dherman: Is there any progress with box trees?
13:08:25 <twirl> plinss: yes, we are moving
13:08:46 <bkardell_> Was a task force set up?
13:09:27 <Yves> good also to put the discussed scope in the issue description
13:12:22 <twirl> [ looking at: CSP2, Mixed Content, Referrer Policy, ... ]
13:13:04 <twirl> Domenic: I've reviewed Referrer spec, found some issues
13:13:54 <twirl> [ mnot and Domenic take this issue ]
13:14:49 <twirl> [ Domenic explains SRI problem ]
13:15:29 <twirl> mnot: there severals spec related to URL metadata
13:16:13 <twirl> s/spec/specs
13:16:23 <twirl> s/there/there are
13:18:12 <twirl> https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/36#issuecomment-57311652
13:19:35 <twirl> Domenic: best way to do spec reviews is talking to author directly
13:19:59 <dherman> "on their turf" is a powerful point
13:20:14 <dherman> "TAG is here as a service" <== good attitude
13:20:21 <twirl> [ Screen Orientation is done ]
13:20:29 <dherman> "come over to my house and let me tell you how you're wrong" <== bad attitude
13:20:46 <dherman> TAGaaS
13:21:40 <twirl> [ multipart/form-data ]
13:23:14 <twirl> mnot: it's already Last Call
13:23:57 <JeniT> http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2388.txt
13:24:07 <JeniT> (presumably the previous version)
13:24:56 <twirl> Domenic: looks cool, there are tests
13:26:00 <twirl> [ work suddenly stopped ]
13:28:43 <twirl> https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/34#issuecomment-57313078
13:28:56 <Domenic> https://github.com/masinter/multipart-form-data/issues/17#issuecomment-48077041
13:34:19 <twirl> [ reviewing multipart-form-data issues ]
13:38:57 <twirl> [ off-topic: mnot complains about implementing HTML5 ]
13:40:19 <twirl> [ agreed to propose something by TPAC ]
13:40:50 <twirl> mnot: Wake Lock
13:41:08 <twirl> Domenic: I'm already involved
13:41:31 <twirl> I'd prefer to have a simple API
13:41:45 <twirl> s/I'd prefer/Domenic: I'd prefer
13:41:55 <twirl> http://w3c.github.io/wake-lock/
13:43:09 <twirl> [ reviewing proposed use-cases ]
13:46:26 <twirl> mnot; Full Screen: closed
13:46:35 <twirl> s/mnot;/mnot:
13:46:43 <twirl> mnot: Manifest?
13:48:19 <twirl> Domenic: It's for installable webapps; related to packaging
13:52:41 <twirl> mnot: WebRTC Identity Provider Selection
13:53:08 <twirl> Domenic: bizzare thing, something like invisible iframe
13:55:00 <twirl> https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/28#issuecomment-57316875
13:56:38 <slightlyoff> OMW
13:57:12 <slightlyoff> hey all
13:57:15 <slightlyoff> terribly sorry
13:57:23 <slightlyoff> meant to join 2 hours ago and failed = \
13:58:12 <dom> dom has joined #tagmem
13:59:11 <slightlyoff> worse in many, many ways = )
13:59:22 <twirl> Topic: Permissions
14:01:08 <slightlyoff> terribly sorry for how long that tool
14:01:21 <slightlyoff> s/tool/took/
14:01:40 <dka> https://gist.github.com/slightlyoff/43cd8c2f64a0719358fe
14:03:03 <twirl> Alex: there are several key aspects
14:03:57 <twirl> ... you can request a permission at page load
14:04:34 <twirl> ... you may build UI using API calls results
14:05:24 <twirl> ... all these things are async
14:05:37 <twirl> ... and user can always say no
14:06:44 <twirl> ... we can imagine lighter UI than prompts if user trusts that app
14:07:58 <twirl> ... we have lots of experience with mobile apps sync permission dialogs, and its disappointing
14:09:31 <twirl> ... there is a trade of remembering webapp permissions vs. leaking this information
14:11:16 <twirl> twirl: how to revoke permissions?
14:11:30 <twirl> Alex: I separated UI from API in a document
14:11:48 <twirl> twirl: but how will webapp know its permission revoked?
14:11:54 <twirl> Alex: ask each time
14:12:18 <twirl> Domenic: but how to restyle UI?
14:12:27 <twirl> Alex: probably perission change event
14:13:03 <twirl> Dom: I like this proposal
14:14:18 <twirl> ... we discussed those questions, I think it's a good starting point
14:17:41 <twirl> [ discussion on requests ]
14:19:11 <twirl> Alex: the question is whether it reasonable to create separate APIs to each action
14:19:24 <twirl> mnot: there is no easy answer, in mobile APIs too
14:19:43 <twirl> Alex: you should have a freedom to change your mind
14:20:46 <twirl> s/separate APIs/separate API requests
14:21:30 <twirl> Alex: we could do that in extensible way, with low-level API
14:23:11 <twirl> dom: It would be great if TAG provides more guidance on securing the Web
14:23:22 <slightlyoff> I am still working on the origin post, it's much harder
14:24:07 <slightlyoff> so I have an idea of where we're going here
14:24:18 <slightlyoff> I can outline it briefly
14:24:37 <twirl> dom: We need a clear picture of future web security
14:26:45 <twirl> Alex: there are good success stories from OSes, we should work on browser UI
14:28:01 <twirl> ... we should think about "installation" for webapps
14:29:08 <slightlyoff> I don't think WG's are the right place to be litigating these issues
14:29:20 <twirl> dom: we need even broader picture
14:29:30 <slightlyoff> nearly all the important security UI is owned by the UA
14:29:33 <Domenic> permissions, origins, crypto, UI
14:29:38 <slightlyoff> and that's increasing over time
14:29:52 <Domenic> (i really like this idea that we should lay out the landscape of how all those things interact)
14:31:28 <twirl> Alex: we now have some legacy, files, we can't ask, for example, a single contact information
14:32:17 <dka> ok thanks Dom!
14:32:23 <twirl> timbl: I need to understand why app wants to have some particular access, I have to trust it completely
14:33:21 <twirl> Alex: we may think for example about manifest, so user could understand what application is
14:34:39 <twirl> ... I don't believe we have answers; for example, should permissions be granted to app working in iframe, etc
14:34:54 <twirl> s/answers/all answers
14:36:51 <twirl> [ timbl on peculiar requests bouncing in Chrome ]
14:36:52 <dka> dka has joined #tagmem
14:37:46 <twirl> [ discussing the problem of sending credentials with CORS ]
14:41:19 <twirl> Alex: Credentials are the most valuable permission, more sensitive than raw socket access
14:42:53 <mnot> msg dka /me killing you with my eyes
14:43:32 <twirl> timbl: imagine that I'm trying to write really good calendar, I need to be able to get information from all other sources
14:43:54 <twirl> ... at present moment ony Facebook could be such super application
14:45:10 <twirl> ... that's reputation question
14:45:48 <twirl> Alex: my experience tells that user doesn't understand what really happens
14:48:30 <twirl> [ discussion on service workers which help to solve these problems ]
14:49:11 <twirl> dka: Dom asked could we document security model beyond permissions
14:49:17 <timbl> timbl has joined #tagmem
14:49:29 <twirl> ... and that's an action for the TAG in my view
14:49:59 <twirl> Alex: I've been working on origins post
14:50:41 <twirl> ... we need to evaluate question how much more could you trust smth, there is no answer right now
14:51:33 <twirl> ... Service Worker is a thing which controls origins since it sees all requests
14:52:03 <twirl> mnot: we have same problems with proxies
14:53:07 <twirl> [ Service Worker Union, we need it ]
14:53:11 <timbl> http://www.seiu.org
14:53:40 <timbl> clientside proxy
14:54:12 <slightlyoff> timbl: we avoided that because it doesn't describe the other background stuff we can do with it, e.g. responding to Push messages
14:54:34 <slightlyoff> timbl: also, I'm going to look into the XHR/fetch credentials thing and see what conditions we can relax it under
14:54:46 <twirl> Topic: Spec Reviews again
14:54:56 <slightlyoff> thanks for bringing it up
14:58:11 <twirl> mnot: Shadow DOM
14:58:22 <twirl> [ awwwww ]
14:59:08 <twirl> mnot: Closed!
14:59:35 <twirl> mnot: Navigation Error Logging
15:00:01 <twirl> mnot: They added promises
15:01:30 <twirl> mnot: I'll check implementation status
15:02:09 <twirl> mnot: Beacon
15:04:13 <twirl> Alex: API is ok, but there could be some implementation problems
15:07:03 <twirl> mnot: NFC API
15:07:35 <slightlyoff> this API doesn't look half bad!
15:08:11 <twirl> so many abbreviations
15:08:21 <slightlyoff> questions for NFC: what about "background" NFC? integration with SW's?
15:12:46 <twirl> mnot: CSS Font Loading
15:12:52 <twirl> Domenic: nearly done
15:13:52 <twirl> mnot: Web MIDID
15:14:00 <twirl> s/MIDID/MIDI
15:14:34 <twirl> mnot: Closed
15:14:39 <twirl> mnot: WebRTC
15:15:06 <slightlyoff> I think we should perhps try to get the ORTC folks to present?
15:15:16 <slightlyoff> maybe have them talk to us?
15:19:22 <twirl> dka: let's organize a call
15:20:13 <slightlyoff> thanks
15:20:25 <slightlyoff> I would also like to let both "sides" know that we're paying attention
15:20:33 <slightlyoff> and would like to see resolution + interop
15:20:45 <twirl> mnot: Web Components
15:20:51 <twirl> Domenic: done!
15:21:59 <twirl> mnot: Push API
15:22:26 <twirl> Alex: already done, feedback accepted
15:23:19 <twirl> mnot: Web Audio
15:23:44 <twirl> Domenic: done
15:23:56 <twirl> mnot: Compositing and Blending
15:25:00 <twirl> mnot: Closed
15:25:03 <slightlyoff> the only thing about Push that's nasty is the verbosity in the API: https://w3c.github.io/push-api/#example
15:25:11 <slightlyoff> but otherwise I think it's in good shape
15:25:50 <twirl> verbosity is better than letter-saving
15:36:02 <twirl> Domenic: next time we should ask authors about preferred form of communication
15:38:26 <slightlyoff> the call is SUPER static-y now
15:38:29 <slightlyoff> gonna re-dial
15:40:20 <slightlyoff> thanks
15:48:54 <twirl> Topic: Privacy
15:50:45 <twirl> mnot: I talked with Chrome and HTTP teams, they were frustrated with Privacy mode understanded by users
15:50:53 <twirl> s/understanded/understood
15:51:54 <twirl> mnot: people don't understand what Privacy Mode guarantees and what does not
15:52:32 <twirl> mnot: if we standardize definitions of privacy mode it will help
15:53:03 <twirl> mnot: users and websites will learn what it means
15:55:19 <twirl> mnot: it's probably a proper moment to act
15:56:07 <slightlyoff> link?
15:56:39 <twirl> mnot: I tried to define what browser privacy mode is
15:56:54 <twirl> mnot: hiding clues from other users of the computer
15:57:06 <slightlyoff> I'd LOVE for sites to get unique storage in this mode
15:57:20 <twirl> mnot: hiding from external observers
15:57:40 <twirl> mnot: hide identity from websites
15:59:08 <slightlyoff> the measurement APIs are an area we can do better in a privacy mode
15:59:19 <slightlyoff> also font access
15:59:30 <twirl> dka: fingerprinting is important too; I can be okay with tracking in regular mode, but I'd like to be not tracked in privacy mode
16:00:28 <twirl> plinss: but you can, in fact, identify yourself as a person-which-is-untraceable
16:01:30 <twirl> mnot: browsers should be more agressive in failing situations
16:01:52 <twirl> mnot: and last one: get user informed
16:03:09 <twirl> mnot: in privacy mode browser either should either obfuscate traffic or display an alert
16:04:12 <twirl> Domenic: browsers should compete how many privacy features they implement
16:08:17 <twirl> Alex: I think in privacy mode access to storages should be restricted
16:09:33 <twirl> dherman: how could this affect the platform?
16:09:35 <slightlyoff> specifically I was saying that you might be able to partition storage
16:10:07 <twirl> mnot: spec editors will be aware of several browser modes
16:12:24 <twirl> dherman: idea itself seems fruitful, but AFAIK users use Privacy mode for hiding browser history, not to be not tracked
16:13:20 <twirl> dherman: we should not make decisions based on our view, not real people needs
16:13:48 <twirl> dherman: it's a product decision, not platform
16:14:54 <twirl> timbl: that's just a switcher saying "I will be embarassed if anyone knows"
16:16:00 <timbl> s/knows/knows — it is up to the tech community t try to anctipate the attack vectors, not the user/
16:16:44 <twirl> dka: there are too less knowledge about when you'd better use privacy modes
16:17:37 <twirl> s/there are too less knowledge about/people know very little
16:19:54 <twirl> JeniT: does this affect server-side?
16:20:14 <twirl> mnot: in general not; maybe in a form of profiles and cookie politics
16:24:06 <dka> adjourned
16:24:12 <dka> rrsagent, make minutes
16:24:12 <RRSAgent> I have made the request to generate http://www.w3.org/2014/09/30-tagmem-minutes.html dka
16:24:16 <dka> rrsagent, make logs public
16:24:35 <slightlyoff> heading off
16:24:38 <slightlyoff> later all!
16:24:41 <dka> thx!
16:43:13 <SteveF> SteveF has joined #tagmem
16:49:14 <wycats> Where is the developer meet up?
16:49:17 <wycats> Trying to go
16:50:24 <mnot> at telefonica
16:51:29 <wycats> Aha
16:51:32 <wycats> On my way
16:51:37 <wycats> 20 Air right?
17:08:47 <timbl> timbl has joined #tagmem
17:51:43 <wycats> They won't let me up
17:51:47 <wycats> I'm just waiting here
17:52:10 <wycats> My name isn't on the list
17:54:56 <wycats> Halp
17:59:22 <darobin> darobin has joined #tagmem
19:15:54 <SteveF> SteveF has joined #tagmem
20:11:31 <darobin> darobin has joined #tagmem
21:16:10 <darobin> darobin has joined #tagmem
21:31:38 <SteveF> SteveF has joined #tagmem
21:42:46 <darobin> darobin has joined #tagmem
21:48:59 <darobin> darobin has joined #tagmem
22:12:39 <timbl> timbl has joined #tagmem
23:10:44 <timbl_> timbl_ has joined #tagmem
23:17:04 <timbl_> timbl_ has joined #tagmem
23:20:38 <timbl__> timbl__ has joined #tagmem
