
## October 1 f2f Minutes
## W3C TAG

00:49:29 **marcosc** marcosc has joined #tagmem
05:01:35 **JeniT*** JeniT has joined #tagmem
06:34:56 **SteveF** SteveF has joined #tagmem
06:54:39 **timbl** timbl has joined #tagmem
07:23:38 **darobin** darobin has joined #tagmem
07:45:14 **timbl** timbl has joined #tagmem
08:00:23 **wycats** On my way, running late
08:05:32 **dka** dka has joined #tagmem
08:08:29 **virginie** virginie has joined #tagmem
08:09:33 **wycats** Hiiii
08:17:15 **virginie** note that I have created some material to discuss here https://www.w3.org/Security/wiki/images/9/98/Web_Authentication_and_other_security_services.pptx
08:17:18 **SteveF** SteveF has joined #tagmem
08:18:38 **dka_air** ok try https://purl-app.com/uhsh43uo
08:19:50 **dka** ok
08:20:55 **twirl** twirl has joined #tagmem
08:23:35 **wycats** Man London traffic in the morning is bad news
08:33:38 **dka** trackbot, start meeting
08:33:40 **trackbot** RRSAgent, make logs public
08:33:40 **Zakim** Zakim has joined #tagmem
08:33:42 **trackbot** Zakim, this will be TAG
08:33:42 **Zakim** I do not see a conference matching that name scheduled within the next hour, trackbot
08:33:43 **trackbot** Meeting: Technical Architecture Group Teleconference
08:33:43 **trackbot** Date: 01 October 2014
08:33:45 **Domenic** ScribeNick: Domenic
08:34:11 **Domenic** dka: we are about to send over some technical feedback on the EME spec
08:35:13 **Domenic** dka: one of the points of discussion yesterday was about how in some jurisdictions it's illegal to do security testing of DRM mechanisms
08:36:26 **Domenic** dka: wondering if we could have some kind of process lever, similar to the patent policy, to compell W3C members who are part of the EME group to agree not to sue companies or individuals doing this kind of security testing
08:37:21 **Domenic** dka: a good point of discussion between the TAG and the AB, as a new kind of policy-level thing
08:38:16 **Domenic** virginie: are you confident this is illegal?
08:38:39 **Domenic** Domenic: yes, anti-circumvention law in the DMCA in the US
08:39:12 **Domenic** twirl: actually that's very controversial. In theory if you prove you have no intent to crack the system, you wouldn't be in trouble. But in practice it is used a lot.
08:39:30 **twirl** http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_v._ElcomSoft_and_Sklyarov
08:39:41 **Domenic** twirl: if I were a security specialist I would be scared
08:40:45 **Domenic** dka: we thought this would be good to bring up because it's not a part of the technical feedback we want to give, but it is important feedback we want to give, if possible. We are not lawyers so we are not sure, but we wanted to bring it up.
08:41:36 **twirl** s/to crack the system/to violate copyright
08:50:13 **virginie**  https://www.w3.org/Security/wiki/images/9/98/Web_Authentication_and_other_security_services.pptx
08:54:43 **virginie** https://www.w3.org/Security/wiki/IG/webcryptonext_workshop
08:56:00 **Domenic** virginie: (reviews slides)
08:56:27 **Domenic** virginie: it was asked which features you would be willing to contribute to in the WG?
08:57:01 **Domenic** virginie: (reviews wiki link)
08:58:24 **Domenic** virginie: it was unclear where to put new topics as they were raised; this is a more general W3C issue
08:58:29 **virginie** http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-web-security/
08:58:54 **Domenic** virginie: there were lots of non-members involved in the discussion, so we decided to have the conversation on public-web-security
08:59:30 **Domenic** Domenic: does webcrypto not have a public mailing list?
08:59:40 **Domenic** virginie: it is readable to all, but not writable to all
08:59:49 **Domenic** virginie: also we did not want to disturb the progress on finalizing webcrypto
08:59:56 **Domenic** Domenic: sounds good :)
09:00:29 **Domenic** virginie: the web security interest group does not have resources at the moment
09:00:44 **Domenic** (next slide, "Other topics")
09:01:27 **dka** Domenic: how much interest was there from implementers on new features for web crypto?
09:01:56 **Domenic** virginie: definitely Microsoft is interested in having credentials or sensitive information being stored in something that is external to the browser
09:02:54 **Domenic** virginie: Mozilla already has an implementation to integrate with **secure** element, but they are not interested in standardizing it
09:03:27 **dka** https://wiki.mozilla.org/WebAPI/WebNFC#Fifth_iteration:_Secure_Element_.28Firefox_OS_v2.2.29
09:03:46 **Domenic** virginie: we could define a way to integrate with other secure (authentication) services, which could offer some of the stuff a **secure** element could offer, but we would want it to be as open as possible
09:04:11 **dka** cf http://www.w3.org/TR/nfc/
09:04:30 **Domenic** virginie: FIDO alliance is interested in secure tokens
09:04:36 **Domenic** Domenic: but they're not a browser vendor, right?
09:04:37 **Domenic** virginie: right
09:05:14 **Domenic** virginie: unclear whether these next steps are a high priority in the browsers
09:05:57 **Domenic** Domenic: I am scared that you guys will do good work coming up with cool things and then it won't be implemented in browsers
09:09:18 **virginie** are you talking about http://mikewest.github.io/credentialmanagement/spec/
09:09:57 **Domenic** yes
09:10:20 **Domenic** (Domenic asked about interest within webcrypto about that proposal)
09:10:41 **Domenic** virginie: there is nothing too security-related here; we didn't have a chane to discuss it
09:10:46 **Domenic** virginie: also unclear where it should go
09:10:54 **Domenic** virginie: maybe webapps
09:11:03 **mnot** mnot has joined #tagmem
09:11:28 **Domenic** virginie: probably doesn't need cryptographers to review it
09:11:35 **Domenic** virginie: maybe webappssec
09:11:52 **Domenic** virginie: but once again no security concerns, it's basically about managing data
09:12:07 **wycats** adoption hacks ðŸ‘
09:12:22 **Domenic** Yves: webappssec would be a nice place to have this kind of work
09:12:36 **Domenic** Yves: they could help review to avoid e.g. exposing credentials when you don't want to
09:14:48 **Domenic** ScribeNick: wycats
09:15:25 **wycats** Domenic: good job getting it over the finish line. I understand it was long and hard.
09:15:31 **wycats** ... and shipping everywhere is good
09:15:41 **wycats** virginie: it's not done yet
09:15:44 **twirl_** twirl_ has joined #tagmem
09:15:46 **wycats** Domenic: it's shipping!
09:16:13 **wycats** virginie: we have to decide whether to include auth in the WebCrypto charter
09:16:26 **wycats** ... we could use help to avoid creating thousands of working groups
09:16:58 **wycats** ... your advice would be helpful
09:17:07 **wycats** ... would you create a new auth WG?
09:17:18 **wycats** Domenic: it really depends how people want to work
09:17:26 **wycats** ... for example the mega-web-apps WG seems to work fine
09:17:30 **wycats** ... other people may not
09:18:20 **wycats** wycats: it probably depends on whether the exact same group of people in an existing WG is the same group that needs to work on another work item
09:18:51 **wycats** dka: unless someone doesn't WANT to work on something, expanding the reach of an existing group seems better
09:19:21 **wycats** ... **thanks virginie**
09:20:10 **virginie** thanks for listening, will keep you informed about the next achievement of chartering discussion
09:20:10 **wycats** Topic: Yesterday's event
09:20:34 **wycats** dka: where should we tell people to engage if they're interested
09:20:54 **wycats** ... specifically engagement on our developer activities
09:21:15 **wycats** mnot: perhaps we want a repo for meta-issues
09:21:48 **wycats** wycats: opening issues about developer meetups on github is weird
09:22:02 **wycats** ... I think specifiction is the new mailing list
09:22:11 **wycats** mnot: who runs specifiction? w3c?
09:22:14 **wycats** dka: robin
09:23:44 **wycats** **scattered discussion about mailing lists**
09:23:50 **wycats** dka: so specifiction
09:24:21 **wycats** ... I feel like it should be an issue on Github
09:24:24 **wycats** Domenic: I like Github
09:24:46 **wycats** ... instead of having many mailing list, it seems Specifiction / Discourse's model is one big list
09:25:04 **wycats** ... Github is a place to talk about concrete issues
09:26:54 **wycats** wycats: The way Ember uses Discourse is as a place for unstructured comments that can get routed to Github Issues
09:27:08 **wycats** Domenic: this is different from the WHATWG's use of mailing list
09:29:31 **wycats** wycats: it's good to have a sense of what goes on Github, Stack Overflow, etc.
09:29:54 **wycats** ... but if you just semi-automatically close issues on Discourse, people feel bad
09:29:59 **wycats** ... this was our experience in Ember
09:30:25 **wycats** **dka talks about developer participation in the summits**
09:30:41 **wycats** dka: it seems good to have a developer outreach component to our f2f meetups
09:32:10 **wycats** wycats: it seems like the group of people who show up are from a closed circle
09:32:44 **wycats** dka: it depends on the city
09:33:57 **wycats** wycats: I think that JS users are our dominant audience
09:34:23 **wycats** dka: last night about 1/2 the audience didn't identify as JS developers
09:35:45 **wycats** dka: so what's the topic in Discourse?
09:35:55 **wycats** Domenic: "standards / developer interfacing"
09:43:11 **darobin** darobin has joined #tagmem
09:44:46 **dka** darobin ready to join us?
09:44:50 **darobin** sure!
09:44:57 **darobin** do I skype you?
09:45:19 **darobin** or webrtc something?
09:46:30 **mnot** http://w3ctag.github.io
09:48:10 **wycats** Topic: URL
09:50:17 **wycats** **discussion about TC39 and normative references**
09:51:25 **wycats** wycats: the optics of this are very bad
09:52:17 **wycats** Domenic: please proceed Robin
09:52:38 **wycats** darobin: there's a lot of ground to cover
09:52:55 **wycats** ... the core of the issue is whether the HTML specification can reference the URL specification normatively
09:53:09 **wycats** ... and in particular whether it's the WHATWG authored version or the W3C copy of it
09:53:24 **wycats** ... from a technical perspective I think we're ok
09:53:31 **wycats** ... the HTML spec is pretty modular
09:53:46 **wycats** ... but there are more complex social and political issues
09:54:30 **wycats** dka: this is related to an effort to get the HTML5 spec published
09:54:39 **wycats** ... I had asked Philippe if the TAG could help
09:55:16 **wycats** ... I had a goal of trying to figure out where we go from here
09:55:34 **wycats** ... the initial feedback I had from Philippe is that we need a URL spec in W3C space
09:55:48 **wycats** ... so we talked about using the same approach as the DOM spc
09:56:02 **wycats** ... it's not a copy
09:56:12 **wycats** wycats: in what important ways is it not a copy?
09:56:16 **wycats** dka: it's a reprint
09:56:36 **wycats** ... but I didn't realize that WHATWG agreed to snapshots
09:56:47 **wycats** ... and that there was ongoing IPR efforts
09:57:03 **wycats** ... I don't think it was the right approach
09:57:06 **wycats** wycats: in what way?
09:57:16 **wycats** dka: because they were pointing to the CG W3C agreement
09:57:40 **wycats** ... and a stronger approach would be to use the W3C patent policy
09:58:38 **wycats** wycats: it was not clear to me before that the normative reference requirements involve a policy that is as strict as the W3C
09:58:43 **wycats** dka: moving on...
09:58:56 **wycats** ... we thought maybe there was a middle ground
09:58:59 **darobin** q+ to try to process the three aspects of this separately
09:59:01 **JeniT** JeniT has joined #tagmem
09:59:12 **wycats** ... to make it explicit that the spec was a reprint
09:59:23 **wycats** ... but to get the stronger IPR from the Web Apps WG
09:59:39 **wycats** ... it feels like we almost got there
10:00:26 **wycats** wycats: am I correct in understanding that the current state of the debate is about which CSS stylesheet is applied to the document?
10:00:33 **wycats** dka: that would be very silly
10:00:40 **wycats** wycats: I agree, that's why I phrased it that way ;)
10:00:46 **wycats** darobin: there are several issues here
10:01:09 **wycats** ... 1) the core technical problems with URL
10:01:13 **wycats** ... it is far from perfect
10:01:22 **wycats** ... we have browsers that are not aligned with it
10:01:47 **wycats** ... how do we unify URLs in browsers with how they are used in other systems
10:02:18 **wycats** ... we probably can't solve it quickly
10:03:16 **wycats** ... 2) dka said that there was a controversy about what HTML needs to ship
10:03:22 **wycats** ... and this was framed as requiring a W3C spec
10:04:21 **darobin** http://www.w3.org/2013/09/normative-references
10:04:32 **Domenic** http://www.w3.org/community/w3process/track/issues/124
10:04:40 **wycats** ... the current normative reference draft provides a set of considerations
10:05:22 **wycats** timbl: indeed. I was misquoted.
10:05:36 **wycats** ... WHATWG specs can be referenced, but there are case-by-case considerations
10:05:45 **wycats** ... that are defined by the normative reference guidelines
10:07:08 **wycats** wycats: the mailing list post said "However, based on my conversations with Consortium staff last week, the Director will NOT permit a Proposed Recommendation to include a normative reference to a WHATWG spec"
10:07:13 **wycats** ... and it would have been good to get clarification
10:07:22 **wycats** timbl: it was hard to figure out how to reply
10:07:39 **wycats** ... for example marcos asked why W3C won't accept WHATWG as a peer org
10:07:48 **wycats** Domenic: I would like that to get resolved
10:08:11 **wycats** timbl: for example, when you look at the WHATWG charter, it says it's a closed WG by invitation only
10:08:50 **wycats** ... it's good to know the clear process
10:09:02 **wycats** ... the WHATWG advertises it as an invitation-only group
10:09:54 **wycats** darobin: my personal analysis is that the way that HTML interfaces with the URL spec is sufficiently modular and orthogonal that it's ok to reference something we know is going to be updated
10:10:46 **wycats** ... Domenic and I worked hard on figuring out a way to do joint applications
10:11:06 **wycats** ... there are some issues right now but we can find agreement
10:11:42 **wycats** ... I thought the WHATWG did a friendly thing by handing over DOM parsing to W3C
10:12:25 **Domenic** domparsing.spec.whatwg.org redirects to https://dvcs.w3.org/hg/innerhtml/raw-file/tip/index.html
10:12:37 **wycats** dka: I think it's good to have HTML5 in the W3C
10:12:38 **darobin** and I heartily applaud that
10:12:43 **Domenic** as it was realized the W3C is doing a better job there
10:13:19 **wycats** dka: enterprise IT consultants want to know that it's stable
10:13:37 **wycats** timbl: people working in the government want to know if they should revise their procurement policy
10:13:49 **wycats** dka: they find it important to know
10:14:58 **darobin** q+ to close that rathole
10:16:03 **wycats** wycats: nobody is waiting for HTML5 to ship in order to use features that are post-HTML4
10:16:16 **wycats** ... I think it is self-evidently absurd to claim anything of the sort
10:16:21 **wycats** darobin: we're not going to get agreement
10:16:33 **wycats** ... I would like to get it to REC to free up resources
10:18:28 **wycats** Domenic: a core issue is that it's a big web and many orgs doing many things
10:18:46 **wycats** ... it's unnecessarily combative
10:18:52 **darobin** q?
10:18:54 **darobin** ack dar
10:18:54 **Zakim** darobin, you wanted to try to process the three aspects of this separately and to close that rathole
10:19:22 **wycats** wycats: the high order bit is whether people are implementing
10:19:38 **wycats** timbl: let me tell you a story
10:20:33 **darobin** [timbl explains how W3C was the WHATWG before the WHATWG was cool]
10:21:16 **dka** Correction to what I said - I think itâ€™s good to have w3c html5 go to Rec.
10:21:25 **mnot** q+
10:21:31 **dka** q?
10:21:44 **wycats** timbl: you said the high order bit is that it's where "cool things are happening"
10:21:46 **mnot** q+
10:22:01 **wycats** ... but what about closed membership?
10:22:03 **darobin** +1 to Domenic
10:22:18 **wycats** Domenic: I think the WHATWG meets the criteria by any definition
10:22:23 **wycats** ... there is just a terminology issue
10:22:23 **dka** +1 as well, with explict respect to URL
10:22:48 **timbl** q?
10:23:30 **wycats** dka: I think WHATWG meets the criteria 100%
10:23:37 **wycats** ... especially for URL
10:24:21 **wycats** mnot: I have historically been circumspect about the WHATWG
10:24:35 **wycats** ... it would be ok if it was closed to browser vendors
10:24:42 **wycats** ... but with a clear governance model
10:24:56 **wycats** ... but if the lawyers at browser vendors are ok with the WHATWG, it seems fine
10:25:28 **mnot** http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2026#section-7.1
10:26:50 **wycats** mnot: there is precedent for incorporating proprietary specifications
10:27:20 **wycats** wycats: and proprietary standards are strictly worse than what the WHATWG is doing
10:27:52 **wycats** mnot: I don't think the high bar is actually required
10:27:59 **darobin** Domenic: and if you look at the OpenStand principles, I think it is very clear that we [the WHATWG] actually adhere very strongly to those
10:28:27 **wycats** obligatory http://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/standards.png
10:29:10 **wycats** dka: what does the IETF think
10:29:18 **wycats** mnot: we'll clean up whatever mess you guys make
10:29:28 **dka** :)
10:29:33 **wycats** ... we are eagerly awaiting the results
10:29:59 **wycats** ... many IETF people think that this could be solved via a preprocessing step
10:30:23 **wycats** ... where "this" means the difference between the WHATWG spec and the the RFC
10:30:50 **wycats** ... there is a difference between URIs and URLs
10:30:55 **wycats** Domenic and timbl: no
10:33:37 **wycats** wycats: real-world cases need to worry about the browser's version of "URL"
10:33:51 **wycats** timbl: keeping things as a preprocessor ("liberal" vs. "conservative" spec) is a good idea
10:34:33 **Yves** wycats, which browser version. The unparsed one or the parsed one? (or both)
10:34:51 **wycats** Yves: the semantics of a URL defined in the platform
10:34:58 **wycats** which includes both
10:35:22 **wycats** wycats: 100% of web servers in the real world do some error correction
10:35:35 **wycats** darobin: we had to write a special server for the platform test
10:36:07 **wycats** mnot: the WHATWG can own URL
10:38:13 **wycats** wycats: I like how the HTML5 parser works with "error states" + error correction
10:38:13 **darobin** http://galimatias.mola.io/
10:38:20 **wycats** ... I think it's analogous to what Tim wants
10:38:31 **Domenic** there was also one in C
10:39:18 **wycats** Domenic: can we normatively reference the WHATWG?
10:39:26 **wycats** dka: the TAG seems to have consensus
10:40:33 **wycats** dka: maybe we can scope to URL?
10:40:44 **wycats** Domenic: we can try to make it precedent
10:41:10 **wycats** ... get rid of the bad blood
10:41:28 **wycats** dka: the bad blood is there because there is a perception that that the WATWG actors have negative actions
10:41:56 **wycats** ... we have to end the fighting
10:42:15 **wycats** wycats: it's not doing anybody (the WHATWG included) any favors
10:42:22 **wycats** dka and Domenic: confirm
10:44:34 **wycats** timbl: things have changed in 25 years
10:44:40 **wycats** ... we knew we were forking the IETF
10:44:41 **dka** correction â€œalso because there is a perception that the whatwg actors have ..."
10:45:08 **dka** key word â€œalsoâ€ - there has been lots of negativity on both â€œsidesâ€ of this topic
10:46:49 **dka** tim: [suggests something needs to happen for w3c to consider whatwg to be a â€œfirst class standardsâ€ body]
10:46:57 **dka** [discussion now on what that would be]
10:47:14 **dka** My pereception is that it is a first class standards body.
10:47:18 **darobin** timbl: maybe we could look through the openstand principles and see if we would want to add things, to define how we should interact with any group
10:47:38 **wycats** I think it's very destructive to say that a standard that is interoperably implemented is "not a standard"
10:47:49 **dka** Tim is talking about a specific thing when he mentions OpenStand: http://open-stand.org
10:48:09 **darobin** more specifically http://open-stand.org/about-us/principles/
10:48:25 **dka** Indeed.
10:50:32 **timbl** TLDR â€œI was a pretty respectful teenagerâ€
10:51:05 **wycats** TLDR "When I was a boy, children had respect for their elders" :P
10:53:47 **darobin** q+ to point out that the H264 case is at the extreme end of the spectrum
10:53:52 **darobin** ack mnot
10:55:49 **wycats** wycats: is strict patent policy actually a requirement for normative references?
10:56:03 **wycats** Domenic: points out that non-REC docs don't have patent commitments
10:56:30 **wycats** darobin: it would be awesome if the W3C would help the WHATWG with patent commitments
10:56:46 **wycats** ... for example, an experimental attempt to get patent commitments through the process
10:56:55 **dka** +1
10:57:05 **wycats** Domenic: via the CG FSA form
10:57:32 **wycats** dka: telefonica is prepared to make a commitment through that mechanism
10:58:30 **dka** confirmed
10:58:32 **wycats** Domenic: helping the WHATWG getting a better patent process in place is a good longer-term work item
10:59:07 **wycats** ... it seems like a new process would be helpful
11:01:23 **wycats** 1+
11:01:24 **wycats** q+
11:01:28 **darobin** q-
11:01:33 **dka** https://pad.w3ctag.org/p/resolutions-1oct2014
11:01:37 **dka** q?
11:05:45 **dka** A proposed resolution here: https://pad.w3ctag.org/p/resolutions-1oct2014 - please help me wordsmith this so that we can have lunch.
11:06:52 **darobin** [I just want to go on the record as strongly supporting the idea that we as a community need to do a much better job at flagging what's implemented and what's a proposal]
11:07:01 **Domenic** +1
11:07:18 **wycats** wycats: if the W3C is pointing at a WHATWG spec that is interoperably implemented, it can sure it will not change
11:09:04 **marcosc** marcosc has joined #tagmem
11:10:33 **wycats** **working on the resolution**
11:10:52 **dka** http://www.w3.org/2013/09/normative-references
11:11:11 **timbl** wycats, IPR in OpenStand is not very strong but is there â€” Affirming standards organizations have defined procedures to develop specifications that can be implemented under fair terms. Given market diversity, fair terms may vary from royalty-free to fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms (FRAND).
11:14:30 **JeniT** JeniT has joined #tagmem
11:15:11 **dka** resolution: With regard to normative references from w3c documents, we agree that the whatwg adheres to open standards principles and that in principle there is no barrier to w3c documents refeferencing whatwg documents normatively. In the specific case of URL being rerefenced from HTML5, we recommend that the W3C HTML5 spec should reference the whatwg URL specification and that between W3C and WHATWG we should continue to resolve any remaining technical and editorial
11:15:12 **dka** issues in the spec.
11:15:17 **dka** resolution: we are heartened that the WHATWG has made moves towards having a stronger IPR policy. We propose to issue a call for patent commitments via the WHATCG's FSA patent commitment form: http://blog.whatwg.org/make-patent-commitments
11:23:34 **dka** rrsagent, make minutes
11:23:34 **RRSAgent** I have made the request to generate http://www.w3.org/2014/10/01-tagmem-minutes.html dka
11:23:39 **dka** rrsagent, make logs public
11:30:33 **dka** hm...
11:31:44 **dka** This is the raw IRC log: http://www.w3.org/2014/10/01-tagmem-irc
12:09:59 **dka** Topic: Modularization / future of specifiction...
12:10:00 **wycats** darobin: I was hoping to have a prototype implementation of the ideas
12:10:10 **wycats** ... I'm behind schedule
12:10:20 **wycats** ... The feedback from the EWS was very positive
12:10:53 **wycats** ... TLDR modularize HTML to make it easier to contribute to
12:10:57 **RRSAgent** I have made the request to generate http://www.w3.org/2014/10/01-tagmem-minutes.html dka
12:10:57 **wycats** ... put everything on Github
12:11:06 **wycats** ... use Specifiction for broad feedback
12:11:10 **wycats** ... specific feedback on Github
12:12:17 **wycats** ... There was a general discussion about the "CSS Problem" aka millions of standards
12:13:37 **wycats** ... Another thing that came up was that there's quite a bit of interest
12:14:17 **wycats** ... people want to submit proposals
12:14:24 **wycats** ... also we want to standardize on bikeshed
12:21:49 **wycats** wycats: I talked about feature flags once features are being actively implemented so you can build a "canary" version of the spec vs. a "release" build
12:22:10 **wycats** ... as a way to enable a more "living standard" approach with more stability marking
12:22:51 **Yves** stability markings... and implementation reports linked as well? (ala caniuse with a finer grain)
12:22:54 **wycats** **feedback is generally extremely useful**
12:23:16 **wycats** wycats: Yves: yes, you would be able to attach implementation reports to a feature name
12:24:08 **wycats** dka: it seems like there's a lot of synergistic work going on
12:24:22 **wycats** darobin: we should all be paying attention to what each other are doing
12:25:34 **wycats** my closing slide from my talk yesterday: http://note.io/1rGZOo3
12:26:27 **wycats** dka: so what's the plan?
12:26:41 **wycats** darobin: some tooling and then some experimental work on pulling out a few initial things
12:28:03 **wycats** Domenic: it seems weird to have the W3C do the modularity work
12:28:12 **wycats** ... given that it originates with the WHATWG
12:28:17 **wycats** darobin: it's more of a proof of concept
12:28:36 **wycats** ... some of the work will be on new features
12:29:17 **wycats** plinss: is this like the CSS model (for new work only)
12:29:24 **wycats** darobin: we'll start that way
12:29:41 **wycats** ... but it's important to know what's been superseded
12:35:37 **Domenic** Domenic: be clear this is proof of concept so as not to confuse developers, other standards people, etc.
12:35:40 **Domenic** darobin: sounds good
12:36:03 **JeniT** JeniT has joined #tagmem
12:36:23 **wycats** wycats: this isn't intended to be hostile, so let's make sure that we don't come off that way by accident
12:37:05 **wycats** Domenic: I liked the way you described the different venues for feedback
12:45:54 **dka_** dka_ has joined #tagmem
12:48:12 **slightlyoff** morning all.
12:48:16 **dka_** hi alex!
12:48:31 **dka_** we are about to start in on extensible web report card brainstorming
12:48:34 **dka_** can you join?
12:48:41 **slightlyoff** yep
12:48:54 **dka_** domenic will be live-editing an etherpad and we hope to transfer this over to a github repo before the end of the day
12:50:44 **Domenic** https://pad.w3ctag.org/p/ew_report_card
12:52:04 **slightlyoff** and you still can't participte in serializing something that submits a file
12:54:51 **slightlyoff** do y'all have a camera on? I can't see London
12:57:34 **slightlyoff** no worries
13:02:04 **Zakim** Zakim has left #tagmem
13:10:08 **slightlyoff** isn't there work on ambient light sensors?
13:10:34 **slightlyoff** https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!topic/blink-dev/AAtN0xjI9Gc
13:36:55 **slightlyoff** brb, coffee
13:44:02 **slightlyoff** back,s orry
13:44:47 **slightlyoff** so I'm not 100% sold that ASM.js plays well with others; its default model makes FFI hard from JS and doesn't exactly have a mapping to DOM
13:45:05 **slightlyoff** it's good, and enabling, but I'm not sure it's "there"
13:45:19 **slightlyoff** minor quibbles
13:47:04 **slightlyoff** on it
13:47:22 **Domenic** wycats: see slightlyoff's take above ^
13:47:34 **wycats** slightlyoff: ðŸ‘
13:48:06 **Domenic** wycats: move to is disruptive in class?
13:48:15 **wycats** hm
13:48:18 **wycats** I am concerned
13:48:31 **wycats** because I am unsure if FFI ever can be optimal
13:48:40 **wycats** what do you mean by mapping to DOM?
13:48:46 **wycats** I agree that these are good things to research
13:48:51 **Domenic** it seems like it could be as optimal as the C++ DOM **-** JS mappings that exist
13:48:58 **wycats** sure
13:49:01 **Domenic** you should be able to get s/C++ DOM/asm.js
13:49:05 **wycats** dherman: what do you know about this?
13:49:29 **wycats** could in theory be more optimal
13:49:34 **wycats** since you could imagine stronger inlining
13:49:40 **wycats** but I don't know
13:50:22 **dherman** we've talked about ways to improve the FFI
13:50:28 **dherman** I agree it's an area that needs research
13:50:36 **dherman** it's better than its competitors at FFI ;)
13:51:32 **wycats** lolol
13:51:45 **slightlyoff** "better than competitors at FFI" -- I want that shirt
13:51:56 **slightlyoff** "ASM.js -- it's not SWIG"
14:03:51 **dka** dka has joined #tagmem
14:17:48 **slightlyoff** brb
14:18:04 **slightlyoff** agree that the event loop is something we can call out
14:18:10 **slightlyoff** also, coordination with other threads
14:18:21 **slightlyoff** e.g., render thread
14:18:23 **slightlyoff** audio thread
14:18:24 **slightlyoff** etc.
14:24:48 **wycats** sniffing is not exposed
14:24:52 **wycats** would be a trivial API
14:24:57 **wycats** window.sniff(blob) :P
14:25:09 **wycats** window.ðŸ‘ƒ(blob)
14:29:29 **slightlyoff** back, sorry
14:30:20 **wycats** welcome back
14:30:20 **slightlyoff** what is this URL?
14:30:25 **slightlyoff** can someone paste it here?
14:30:44 **wycats** unknown
14:34:23 **dka** dka has joined #tagmem
14:35:17 **Domenic** http://w3ctag.github.io/extensible-web-report-card/ but wanted it auto-generated from markdown so that's not good...
14:35:42 **slightlyoff** thanks
14:37:15 **twirl** looks ok to me
14:37:19 **twirl** except fonts
14:38:28 **slightlyoff** so a question
14:38:49 **slightlyoff** the Scrolling section says "scrolling is a fundamentally native capability", but I don't think this is true
14:38:51 **slightlyoff** input handling is
14:39:06 **slightlyoff** scrolling is what a system does in response to input handling
14:40:30 **slightlyoff** disconnected = \
14:40:46 **slightlyoff** will get coffee = )
14:41:02 **Domenic** wycats ^
14:41:08 **wycats** hello
14:41:10 **Yves** disconnected as well, needs to drop soon anyway
14:41:34 **slightlyoff** so I'm pretty sure that the bit that isn't being currently standardized for push is the low-level protoocol set (e.g., GCM)
14:41:36 **wycats** what I mean is that what happens when the user moves his finger is always intermediated by the system
14:41:41 **wycats** and trying to reinvent that in JS is insane
14:41:48 **wycats** and basically impossible to do reliably
14:41:55 **wycats** finger/mouse/etc
14:41:59 **slightlyoff** that doesn't make sense to me
14:42:05 **wycats** then I'm being unclear
14:42:08 **slightlyoff** the reason we can't do it reliably is that we haven't been given events
14:42:12 **slightlyoff** at least not until recently
14:42:13 **wycats** deny
14:42:16 **wycats** we have the events
14:42:19 **wycats** the user moved his finger
14:42:19 **slightlyoff** no, we don't
14:42:31 **wycats** how fast should the content move in the viewport?
14:42:31 **slightlyoff** I know from an engine perspective that we weren't giving them to you
14:42:44 **slightlyoff** up to the program.
14:42:46 **wycats** how do you know if the user meant to scroll or click?
14:42:50 **wycats** it's actually NOT up to the program
14:42:55 **slightlyoff** sure it is
14:42:56 **wycats** you do NOT want to do that
14:42:57 **wycats** no
14:43:00 **wycats** absolutely not
14:43:06 **slightlyoff** I *MIGHT* want to do that
14:43:08 **wycats** you might
14:43:12 **wycats** it is good to be able to
14:43:14 **slightlyoff** and when I do, the system damned well better let me
14:43:28 **wycats** but in most cases you want the system to decide things like momentum, what happens when you get to the top, etc.
14:43:34 **wycats** because they are OS-wide policies
14:43:39 **wycats** and you would like consistency with the OS
14:43:59 **wycats** trying to reverse engineer the OS policy *per device* and write JS libraries is crazy
14:44:03 **wycats** people do it and it's horrible
14:44:11 **wycats** they end up just applying the iOS policy to android
14:44:12 **wycats** etc.
14:44:31 **wycats** and when iOS tweaks the global policy, you're stuck with an old algorithm
14:44:46 **slightlyoff** sorry...was getting coffee
14:44:56 **slightlyoff** so you get to decide: do you want to empower developers or not?
14:44:59 **wycats** you would like a way to delegate to the native policy but still understand what is happening so you can put things on the moving element
14:45:02 **wycats** deny
14:45:04 **wycats** layering bro
14:45:06 **slightlyoff** if the answer is yes, then we must accept that there will be both high and low level
14:45:25 **wycats** there is always an intermediate layer
14:45:30 **slightlyoff** and not deny developers the low-level power just because there is high-level interaction
14:45:34 **wycats** which does the native functionality with hooks
14:45:53 **wycats** that is the hardest part of web dev
14:45:56 **slightlyoff** I think you're used to having your SDK fused into the platform
14:45:59 **wycats** it's where "rebuilding the stack" happens the most
14:46:02 **slightlyoff** in a really unhelpful way
14:46:06 **wycats** disagree
14:46:14 **wycats** people want the ability to have consistency with the native SDK on the web
14:46:17 **slightlyoff** look at "pull to refresh" as a gesture
14:46:17 **wycats** not always
14:46:19 **wycats** but sometimes
14:46:26 **slightlyoff** it didn't come from iOS
14:46:28 **slightlyoff** or android
14:46:49 **slightlyoff** it came from programs having the freedom and power to do the Right Thing (TM) becaues they had low-level, synchronous access to events
14:46:50 **wycats** not originally
14:46:59 **wycats** you're misunderstanding me but I don't know why
14:47:05 **wycats** I absolutely want people to have access to the low level
14:47:08 **wycats** absolutely 100%
14:47:19 **slightlyoff** great, then we agree
14:47:19 **wycats** but I think you can assume that once you've done that you're "done"
14:47:28 **wycats** or once you've done that plus the high level you're "done"
14:47:35 **wycats** and I'm saying there's a specific interaction that is the hard part
14:47:38 **wycats** that we do very poorly
14:47:49 **wycats** which is the interaction between content and native display/interactions
14:48:31 **slightlyoff** thinking specifically about scrolling, it's hard
14:48:38 **slightlyoff** so there's a threaded scrolling system in most impls
14:48:52 **slightlyoff** where a texture is sent to a separate thread to move in order to prevent main-thread jank
14:49:03 **slightlyoff** (this is slow, BTW, but less janky)
14:49:10 **slightlyoff** "native" apps don't do this
14:49:32 **slightlyoff** they just implement scrolling in direct response in their input handling thread
14:49:57 **slightlyoff** and now we're in a place with beforescroll that we can hint the system to say "no, I want to behave like a real boy and do my scrolling on the main thread"
14:50:14 **slightlyoff** "don't context switch me, bro"
14:50:40 **slightlyoff** this is both potentially quite a bit faster/more-responsive and more like what "regular" programs can do
14:50:48 **slightlyoff** but it means taking over the control
14:50:56 **slightlyoff** by _switching model_
14:51:13 **slightlyoff** the alternative is to expose the off-thread scroll behavior and...I dunno...invent a "scroll worker"?
14:51:33 **slightlyoff** but that's not actually something anyone wants
14:51:46 **slightlyoff** and we frequently have this issue where control means switching systems or models
14:51:53 **slightlyoff** e.g., JS and __proto__
14:52:01 **slightlyoff** you go slow path for using it
14:52:07 **slightlyoff** it's the price of control
14:53:29 **slightlyoff** there seems to me to be something fundamental in the idea that you'll have 2 systems and, as much as everyone hates it, it's unavoidable
14:53:37 **wycats** I agree
14:53:40 **slightlyoff** I think dherman makes this point frequently and better than I can
14:53:45 **wycats** :P
14:53:58 **wycats** I think this point of interaction is the key thing that triggers stack rebuilding
14:54:06 **wycats** so if you don't want people to have to rebuild stacks
14:54:10 **wycats** you need to contend with it
14:54:37 **slightlyoff** yeah
14:54:50 **slightlyoff** and there needs to be general advice to implementers in the form of "get over it"
14:54:57 **wycats** similar things happen with form elements
14:55:04 **wycats** you have to choose between "black box" and "I'll do it myself"
14:55:06 **slightlyoff** yep yep
14:57:25 **dherman** what'd I do?
14:57:40 **slightlyoff** hah
14:58:49 **dherman** http://38.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_m9027aTjbq1qkthyyo2_400.gif
14:58:58 **wycats** All I know is that Stalin still uses Geocities
15:00:10 **wycats** sbb
15:02:06 **JeniT** JeniT has joined #tagmem
15:02:15 **slightlyoff** my fault, sorry = \
15:03:23 **slightlyoff** what's the repo?
15:03:53 **dka** https://github.com/w3ctag/extensible-web-report-card/tree/gh-pages
15:03:58 **slightlyoff** thanks!
15:04:47 **dka** See http://w3ctag.github.io/extensible-web-report-card/
15:11:28 **JeniT** JeniT has joined #tagmem
15:12:56 **virginie** virginie has joined #tagmem
15:14:24 **virginie** rrsagent, please generate minutes
15:14:24 **RRSAgent** I have made the request to generate http://www.w3.org/2014/10/01-tagmem-minutes.html virginie
15:18:25 **SteveF** SteveF has joined #tagmem
15:23:06 **Domenic** plinss: https://help.github.com/articles/setting-up-a-custom-domain-with-github-pages
15:24:58 **JeniT** JeniT has joined #tagmem
15:33:43 **slightlyoff** it occurs to me that the report card maybe should have letter grades?
15:35:37 **Domenic** it's more like a kindergarten report card, I think :P
15:36:18 **dka** I believe that is https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/commit/b9643fb8f3a4463ee5084cf2dddab09c561658f3
15:43:11 **dka** White boards from todayâ€™s meeting: https://github.com/w3ctag/f2f-meetings/tree/gh-pages/2014/sept29-oct1
15:43:20 **dka** rrsagent, make minutes
15:43:20 **RRSAgent** I have made the request to generate http://www.w3.org/2014/10/01-tagmem-minutes.html dka
15:43:36 **slightlyoff** love the whiteboards, thankyou!
15:44:10 **slightlyoff** so good
15:47:25 **Domenic** plinss: https://github.com/jasonlong/architect-theme
15:48:15 **Domenic** http://extensiblewebreportcard.org/
15:51:55 **marcosc** marcosc has joined #tagmem
15:57:00 **rubys** rubys has joined #tagmem
15:57:20 **rubys** The following is what the AC reviewed in the Proposed Recommendation:
15:57:20 **rubys** http://www.w3.org/TR/html5/references.html#refsURL
15:57:20 **rubys** The following is what the TAG recommends:
15:57:20 **rubys** http://www.w3.org/2014/10/01-tagmem-minutes.html#item02
15:57:20 **rubys** This is what I would like to suggest as a replacement:
15:57:20 **rubys** http://intertwingly.net/tmp/references.html#refsURL

