

TAG F2F Boston September 2015
Day 2

Present: Dan, Peter, Tim, Mark, Travis, Yan, Yves,  David,Hadley (Remote), Alex
Guests: Wendy, Mike West

---

[skipping Credential until Alex arrives]

Opportunistic HTTPS
================
mnot: likes Brad's proposal but doesn't seem to be getting traction due to complexity. Other proposal from Barnes - HSTS priming, optimisticially make request to see whether a resource supports HTTPS by sending back the HSTS header. Need to analyze the proposals and get deployment feedback. NYTimes is a great test case.
mike: curious to hear about NYTimes, would like to help.
dan: what can be documented to help other websites?
mnot: need to detect which URLs are HTTP. also, any new features are only supported in newer browsers.
mike: modern browsers should capture enough of the population that results are statistically significant. i think csp-ro will give them enough information. if not, we need to reevaulate csp-ro.
dan: should we bring together a community group to discuss how to transition news sites to https?
yves: we are moving the main w3.org site to https, we will have a blog post explaining the issues. companies that move to https can document how they did it.
mike: my suspicion is that there is not something technical that will make transition seamless. my suspicion is that the advice we give is clear. challenge is getting information out to developers who are not involved in our discussions. being tech support for NYTimes is a good case study for the world. i suspect their challenges are less about mixed content and more about internals.
mnot: i'm not sure we need another venue/group for this purpose.
plinss: any thing to do?
mnot: continue to revisit the topic
timbl: what is the status of encrypting without the S in HTTPS? browsers and servers (Apache) need to transition together
mnot: I'm not sure we're there yet.
mike: brad's proposal and barnes are complementary, not opportunistic. brad's doesn't involve HSTS.
timbl: brad's seems important, what do we have to do to get it adopted in apache?
mnot: i see brad's as being more about helping sites transition by introducing an intermediate state to gather info about mixed content.
timbl: no, i see the intermediate state as providing benefits of HTTPS with the HTTP scheme.
mnot: but the intermediate state is subject to downgrade.
timbl: but it encrypts things that otherwise wouldn't be encrypted. makes world safer. if there is a downgrade, the UI shows site as not secure. i thought that brad's proposal got a thumbs up from the TAG.
wendy: i thought we got a thumbs up for more discussion/development.
mnot: yeah, next step is to bring it to webappsec.
mike: it's not clear to me that it solves all problems, but it is certainly worth discussing.
mnot: it is complex in terms of how content works.
timbl: why? just turn on.
mnot: the concern is that developers will stop at the intermediate state without getting full HTTPS security ever. other concern is how it indicates protocol change - ALPN identifier. need to talk through with IETF.
plinss: what to do next?
mnot: poke brad. push webappsec to discuss in Sapporo?
dan: i'm happy to set up a spec review milestone for next week.
mnot: i'd like a more detailed comparison of brad and barnes' proposals.

Credential
========
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/49#issuecomment-137444228
mike: TAG already reviewed but then there was an explosion of interest somewhat divergent from mine/webappsec's. Right now the API is a pretty generic storage mechanism for credentials. Can be extended to FIDO, etc. Chrome has implementation behind a flag. Probably shipping soon. Great time for TAG to take a look at the API. Excellent time to get feedback in.
alex: any significant changes to API surface area?
mike: main diff is in the way credentials are requested; dictionary approach. API is pretty simple and extensible for other groups. Could maybe be simplified but need to keep the extension points.
alex: what is the lifetime of a credential within the store?
mike: for passwords, sits indefinitely until user deletes. website can decide to neuter credentials.
travis: are users alerted whenever a credential is stored?
mike: yes. uses in-browser password manager.
travis: no way to clear credentials?
mike: no way in the API because websites would abuse it.
travis: is this intended to make credentials locked to origins?
mike: my vision is that credentials are stored for origin. for federated identity providers, we are still working that out. UA can help remember which provider was used to authenticate for a website. so credentials are origin-bound but can be synthesized.
travis: what is the contention?
mike: it would be hard for me to explain. a lot of discussions going around in webpaymentsIG, credential CG. some people there would like cross-origin identifiers of some sort.
alex: no more questions
mike: now is an excellent time for feedback.
travis: you mentioned FIDO could plug in, is there a spec?
mike: no. FIDO seemed to map well into this doc previously, not so much anymore with their new API. we'll have to have more conversations around that but there are lawyers apparently.
alex: when will this be resolved?
wendy: i talked to FIDO yesterday, we are waiting on them to release publicly. working around patent constraints.
alex: seems hostile that they can't talk about what the API will look like.
wendy: all of their discussion until they release proposed spec is member-only.
travis: mike - long term, do you think credential and fido need to converge?
mike: it would be nice if they did. it is possible for them to be separate but unfortunate.
[travis takes action to look over credential and provide feedback if any]

mike: since secure contexts (https://w3c.github.io/webappsec/specs/powerfulfeatures/ ) is a shared deliverable, you should look it over. seems ready for wide review. there is one outstanding issue about context of shared workers but can be worked out later.
yan: +1
alex: what is the goal of the examples?
mike: to explain implications of algorithms later in the doc. no normative value.
alex: in legacy features, you talk about features that are not widely implemented.
mike: idea is that there can be a graded approach based on damage that would be done by turning something off.
alex: it just seems like non-normative text.
mike: agreed
dan: should we provide feedback this week?
mike: from my perspective it's basically done
alex: lgtm
travis: i don't see why, in example 5, example.com is insecure when inside of insecure.
mike: ancestor chain must be secure. trivial leakage is the problem.
mike: we don't check the reverse (insecure iframe inside secure one) since that case is blocked by mixed content blocking
alex: does sharedworker change state after creation based on who attaches?
mike: yes, that is the current behavior but Moz has alternate suggestions. i think we agreed to set a bit on the sharedworker based on its creator state. then prevent the other kind of context from attaching to it.
plinss: publish == take to CR?
mike: haven't actually decided. we suggested it would be good to be a normative document. i don't have a strong opinion one way or the other.
dan: from a process perspective, that sits with webappsec.
mike: barnes will take a look to see whether Moz objections from chartering still apply.
wendy: should we have a convo at tpac to help other groups understand the consequences of this?
mnot: yes, maybe plenary day
travis: can the "secure" property be inferred without a new API?
mike: sort of, but would be nice to give developers this

CSP
====
mike: csp is awesome. csp level 2 is moving to PR. brad etc. working on tests. simultaneously working on csp level 3, integrates with fetch. mostly refactoring. once that's done, new things can be done. 1 - something with cookies. limiting the domains for which a cookie can be set. 2 - reporting. aggregate violation reports before sending. requires a breaking change in violation report format. hoping to start conversation in Q4 about what to add and what to revisit.
dan: i will note that we have a spec review issue for CSP (#42). milestone?
mike: CSP3 could be a time to revisit CSP pinning/manifest. https://w3c.github.io/webappsec/specs/csp-pinning/
alex: also seems like a good time to think about an API for CSP

[discussion of CORS]

CORS
=====
travis: tim's point is that CORS is in the wrong substrate layer. where does it go?
mnot: fetch?
travis: is there a new protocol where we could put CORS?
timbl: before CORS, data on the web was a mesh where resources were covered by access control on server side.



## Spec Reviews

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/71

### [requestIdleCallback](https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/70)

dka: Opinions?

alex: In previous discussions, there have been questions about specifying this as an option to one of the existing callback delivery systems; e.g., setInterval. 

timbl: this means?

alex: browsers are growing schedulers; some are very sophisticated now. 

travis: picking what to do next.

timbl: this is a callback for when they're done?

alex: things that would cause jank; they're run when the browser is relatively sure that the user is idle.  You frequently can know when users are interactive with the system; e.g., capacitive touch, mouse movement, keyboard movement. You can use heuristics with relative certainty. 

david: is it OK if these things never run?

Alex: perhaps. We should look at the API.

david: it seems possible that you could end up in that situation, depending on what's going on, and the definition of idle is.

Travis: Yup. That needs to be made explicit. You can't make a guarantee for any future callback; you can say "in a typical case..."

dka: Who wants to take ownership? 

*crickets*

Alex: there is timeout in the API; that's not the same thing as a deadline.

david: I can take it. Milestone should be before the middle of October.

dka: 30th?

david: ok.

### [Media TF Discussion](https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/69)

dka: Don't need to discuss this one.

Travis: is this the same as the discussion yesterday?

dka: yes.

peter: no.

dka: should we mark this as overtaken and close?

peter: yes; replace by #73.


### [Battery Status API](https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/68)

dka: my interpretation is that they don't need our help; they've taken privacy-related stuff on board. My sense is we should close.


### [Payments WG Charter](https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/67)

mnot: I raised issues on the AC which have now gone to the charter review group.
... I think we decided we wouldn't add more as the TAG
... We [TAG] felt the rest of the discussion would be better suited elsewhere.
alex: there's a lot of things happening in this space.
... a draft charter that came out of the workshop
... also a few drafts floating around IRC
... I expect those to continue to evolve outside the WG (inside a CG)
mnot: my major concern was that they chartered the WG without firm tech direction or scope.
alex: I think the tech direction is coming.
mnot: I'm now at a point where I'm getting more comfortable
dbaron: I also have a few comments to add/revise.
... deadline is 9pm tonight.
... I had concerns (maybe more broadly) that this might create a much larger system, and whether it will be an open system
... I have opinions about characteristics that I want the end result to have...
... but I'm not an expert in the space.
... I just don't know how to have the charter say that.
mnot: it's obvious there are lots of good financial folks on the group. However without folks that understand the web in the room, things could go astray.
dbaron: I think there's a bunch of folks in the room that don't know they should be involved in making the end result happen--so they are not reviewing it as they should.
alex: for folks working on early design in Chrome, I will encourage them to come to the TAG as soon as reasonable.
mnot: I'm still not sure there's anything technical to say as the TAG
... maybe we should just say that.
... if tomorrow they announce a new WG, then I'd be worried.
alex: speaking with Chome hat: I'd rather see work start in incubation.
wseltzer: I don't want us to push on starting work prematurely... there's a wide range of industry experts who want to work together--we don't expect them to come together right away with an end result.
dan (cites experience working on payments previously).
... Is the piece of actually working on the implementation happening.
(discussion of marketing a feature, creating the feature, and alex's personal views)
mnot: Right now the population in Web Payments feels like an Interest group. If we can get the right folks that can implement/help make it real, then the group can succeed.
alex: we also shouldn't conflate the standards creating a document from having it be a *good* or successful standard.
(discussion of values of bringing folks together as part of standardization)
dbaron: who are the implementors of the Wallet API? I can't tell by the charter.
... Is it supposed to be implemented by browsers? I think half the folks think it is and half don't.
mnot: some of the deliverables look like a format, some look like a protocol.
timbl: seems like it needs an architecture to be defined
... the charter needs to be specific about what the vision is. Folks need to draw circles on the whiteboard that explains who calls who, then it may not be sufficiently clear.
hadley: we can't sufficiently comment on the architecture of the web because we don't understand what that architecture is yet (and they also may not understand it).
... Since the TAG can't yet provide feedback, I think that's an interesting note in and of itself.

Alex: Social signalling that creating a WG that the next successful step is not just a WG; it's early drafts, iteration, early prototyping before a WG would be helpful. 


### [Motion Path](https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/66)

alex: thse are shipped, or shipping soon

dka: I misunderstood that as unusually frank feedback...

alex: this is a request for review.

dka: Would be nice if it had specific questions.

Peter: this is a joint TF between CSS and SVG.

david: it should specify that it works like a transform works.

travis: is there a length of time specified?

david: you do that by animating motion offset.

travis: it seems like it integrates well...

peter: I don't recall this being controversial in the WG at all.

travis: seems nice; I can imagine all of the PowerPoint animation paths being implemented in this way.

alex: what is the coordinate space for the path?

david: good question.

alex: [reading from spec]

david: it sounds like it is somewhat defined.

travis: do we still tie behaviour to tag names?

david: svg does.

david: does transform apply to inlines?

dka: can I suggest we wait for feedback and take this offline?

alex: we should fill in the bug a bit more..

dka: Assigned to Peter.


### [Cross-spec device identification & association](https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/64)

Alex: This is about hardware IDs. He's flagged that there are a series of kinds of hardware devices that we don't want to give details like MAC addresses, but we need persistent identifiers for them. This is handled in different ways by different specs; would be good to have consistency.

Travis: I'm famiiar with the media capture one.

[Travis explains the case with more detail]

Travis: You want to be able to ask for an ID and get the same device, within the bounds of a session. In WebRTC, they want to store a device ID so they don't have to ask for a device to be selected time and time again. If the hardware device id is leaked across origins, that's not good.

Travis: The ask of the TAG is to determine whether there could be a consistent approach

Alex: ...or recommendations to various WGs on how to do this in general.

Travis: It makes sense to consider it at this level because you can ask things like "Can IDs be recycled among different types of hardware?"

Alex: Also, what should be the available entropy in the pool?

Peter: And it should be reset even for the same origin when cookies are reset.

Travis: yes.

DKA: assignee is currently Alex, no milestone. Is there a best practice that we can already reference?

Alex: We should find out.

DKA: Will return to this. 30th?

Alex: sure.

### [Sketch out proposals for event synthesis/flow and reusable a11y behavior](https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/63)

DKA: Should we discuss this?

Alex: Let's move on.

### [Clear Site Data](https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/62)

mnot: [discusses issues he raised in bug]

Alex: came out of serviceworkers discussion; needed a kill switch.

yan: had a question with self-consistency w/ cookies

travis: [looks at spec]

yan: I can try to help...

dka: FPWD is out...

mnot: I'm happy just to raise issues; at a high level, this is a v. good thing.

yan: +1

dka: closing.

### [Presentation API](https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/61)

DKA: [summary of progress in bug]

DKA: looks like this has already happened.

Travis: second to last comment from me -- that we wanted to turn this into a series of questions, to inspire more discussion.

DKA: Are they still listening?

Travis: good question.

DKA: [futzes around with github]

Travis: Let's wait for a response to our ask, revisit at next teleconf.


### [File URI Scheme](https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/59)

mnot: checking the status of the RFC...
... I think they are just waiting for feedback...
... publised a new version in late July (after the issue was raised)
... it does not seem to address what we brought up.
... Here's the diff: https://www.ietf.org/rfcdiff?url2=draft-ietf-appsawg-file-scheme-03
... Our feedback is still valid.
dan: should Yan's work be integrated into URL standard? That's the question.
mnot: I think we can agree with Yan's feedback: we can give our suggestions on the Issue, and ask them to work with Anne on the URL spec to converge.

### [Media Captures and Streams](https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/57)

Travis: Dom asked for more formal feedback.

Travis: Yan's issue 212 appears to be closed.

Yan: It's not merged yet, but they did write the answers in the issue.

DKA: Should I ask Dom if more formal feedback would be helpful?

Travis: There's still outstanding feedback on the main issue from Alex, re: the consumption model for Streams, the implicit semantics that come from having a clone method. Chris Wilson about use and integration of streams. I think that's what Dom is waiting on.

mnot: from us?

Travis: yes.

Travis: We were talking about the producer/consumer model for media capture. 

Travis: I think we need to ask ourselves if we're happy with the media streams spec. I brought this up with Harald, and he said "They're not really streams -- don't think about them as streams!"

DKA: Anything we can add? Should we add Domenic?

Alex: Don't think so.

Travis: The answers in the security questionaire don't talk about Domenic's streams.

DKA: Maybe a future telcon?

Alex: yes.

Travis: It might be nice to level-set expectations.

DKA: [adds milestone for 10-7]


### [Frame Timing API](https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/56)

mnot: We wanted to circle back to the privacy issue.

alex: proposal is to only report frames where you missed a frame, which is observable through requestAnimationFrame anyway. It won't let you get tighter than existing API granularity about paint time. For most of the people who ar e interested in this, this works fine.

mnot: +1

david: I feel like it addresses the privacy issue. I'm a little more worried that this will break too much.

david: I'm OK with closing it; it might need to be reopened, but that's not too scary, because it can probably be compatibly changed.

alex: discussion here: https://github.com/w3c/frame-timing/issues/47

travis: did your other comments get addressed? [to david]

david: The issue they opened [for specificty to current browsers] is still open.

travis: wacky indentation? Frame timing full event bubbles?

dka: should we close our issue?

david: I'm fine with closing it.

travis: Ilya is tracking our feedback.

DKA: closing.


### [CSSOM View document.scrollingElement](https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/51)

Travis: This is implemented in chrome and edge. Our justification is that it's useful because it allows a common way of getting the frame element between standards mode and quirks mode documents.

DKA: how has this remained open? Can we close it?

Peter: I'm concerned about this API because it's conflating presentation with DOM. Generally, this area needs work.

Travis: that speaks to Alex's comments on the issue (May 1).

[Alex to write review]


Meeting Adjourned.

