TPAC 2015 W3C TAG Minutes
30 October 2015

Present: Hadley, Dan, Alex, David, Mark, Peter, [Tantek - observer], Wendy [at the end]
Guests: Tantek (15:00-adjournment)

Agenda Doc: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2015/TPAC-2015-Special.md

Agenda:
rigo's issue;
security & privacy questionnaire;
Melbourne planning;
Cory's Proposal;
Spec review review;
general TPAC catch-up
AOB

Topic: Rigo's request to TAG
https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2015Oct/0016.html
DKA: Rigo made a request
Hadley: main crux of my points: it's policy so it's problematic for us to get involved in.
DKA: So propose we do not take any action, all OK?
Alex: We should respond with a question if there's anything technical that we can weigh in on, If there's a technical question then…
Peter: It's about let's have a technical solution to a policy problems, but it's still policy to me.
Alex: [his request] doesn't have a technical question for us
Hadley: I'd rather have it as a statement than a question.
Alex: Happy with that.
[hadley to write a message back to Rigo on the TAG mailing list]

Topic: Security & Privacy Questionnaire
https://w3ctag.github.io/security-questionnaire/
[discussion on privacy IG vs. TAG involvmennt in the doc]
DKA: I think the document is stronger coming from TAG.
Hadley: don't disagree
Alex: I [think it should be in TAG]
Dan: How should we advance this document to start getting wider review?
Peter: last I remember we would publish it as a note - reason to get it into dated URL space. I think that's fine.
Alex: Yes.
Dan: Yes I agree with that.
Mark: Notes have a feeling that they are one-shots.
Hadley: Disagree.
Alex: we can put a header on the top.
David: A "status of the document" that informs people.
Peter: we need a status.
David: something this week made me think whether it could have some more broad questions... e.g., what parties are involved, what their expectations are
Dan: Next steps: add a status; publish it as a note; seek wider review; fix issues in spec; iterate - go back to PING and let t
hem know what we're doing

Melbourne Planning
https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/tree/gh-pages/2016/01-mel
Mnot: Details up. I've listed some hotels. We have a venue for the meet-up.

The Cory Thing
Hadley: cory wrote to the AC with his proposal; AC descended into a flamewar; we took the conversation to a discussion with wendy; I had problems with Cory's suggestion that we do something that impacts litigation for activities that happen outside the w3c.
Alex: lots of precendents in open source licencing. apache licence for example has mutual pacts.
Hadley: I think that's a US centric view of the law.
David: Or w3c patent policy.
Hadley: what I'm suggesting is having a conversation in more depth later. Dan & wendy & I thought we could do a task force; wendy thought context was CDM/EME related; I thought wider; needs to be hammered out. Dan suggested the task force could be a TAG task force. Secondly we need to figure out its remit and who could chair.
Dan: specifically, I suggested that if this is a web architecture issue, and web technologies should be auditable without fear of prosecution, then that might be a TAG finding. OR we could do a TAG task force just focusing on that issue.  But I'm concerned about focusing only on EME, because that way lies chaos.
... I think Cory did well in not making this just about EME, but made it a security audit and transparency issue.
... The reason I suggested a TAG group is to unblock the digressions in the AC.
Mnot: Composition of the task force?
dka: We could control the task force.
Hadley: If it needs full consensus, it needs a lot of different views.
Alex: The way it was pitched to us makes it feel like an AB/AC thing. A policy change;
Hadley: +1
dka: Yes it is an AB-type issue, but it stems from architectural thing, a technical thing.  The technical thing is that security analysis is good for the web.
Hadley: I'd say that's policy, because it's behaviour
dbaron: I think there is a technical aspect there. Key aspect to Web security is staying on top of Web issues, being on top of vulnerabilities.
alex: and having a better model than others, in terms of platform security.
Hadley: Would you put that in a spec, David? I agree it's important but not sure it's technical.
David: I probably wouldn't put it in a spec ; I would and have criticized others for failing to do those things
dka: Is there a root issue we can identify technical enough that the TAG can make a statement. And given that statement, we can help formulate a way to take forward Cory's proposal, to help the rights holders, civil society and us as a consortium happy. 
Hadley: we did talk about something that is technical and architectural - the fundamental architecture of the web should be open and auditable.
Alex: There's shared implementer concern [about this].
Hadley: We're committed - having shared the idea of a task force - to go back and update on it.
Alex: what do we want to see happen?
Hadley: some of it is purely legal. Protecting responsible disclosure is an important part of how the web works and how the world works in general.
Dan: Could we come up with a TAG resolution on web architecture that could inform the process?
Hadley: yes it's technical.
Mark: I think there are dragons here. I would like to see the world that Cory wants to see. Many concerns. I don't think we're a good venue for this
Alex: I do want to see Cory's proposal adopted widely and soon. Share Hadley's concern that it's not the right place. Right place is AC or AB.
Dan: Is there a TAG resolution we can take to push the AB or the AC in the right direction?
Alex: As the web will contunue to cover more and more hardware capabilitiy - as the capabilities become stronger and stronger... NFC, bluetooth, lower level access; vulnerabilities in those sorts of systems have bigger impacts than you might imagine.  A web page talking to a device over bluetooth has new security implications.
In that light, security review, research...
Alex: The stack underneath it has to be strong

security research and responsible disclosure of flaws strengthens software security which helps to promote a more secure and trustable web for all something something

Title: Assuring a Strong and Secure Web Platform
The Web has been built through iteration and collaboration, and enjoys strong security because so many people are able to continually test and review its designs and implementations. As the Web gains interfaces to new device capabilities like NFC & bluetooth, we rely even more on broad participation, testing, and audit to keep users safe and the web's security model (including the Same Origin Policy) intact. Therefore, W3C policy should assure that such broad testing and audit continues to be possible, as it is necessary to keep both design and implementation quality high.
[consensus on the above statement was achieved at this meeting] - RESOLVED (pending response from Tim)

	UPDATE (2-Nov): Tim requested we remove “(including same Origin Policy)” parenthetical. I further would suggest removing "like NFC and Bluetooth" as it muddies the waters. Full statement would read:
	The Web has been built through iteration and collaboration, and enjoys strong security because so many people are able to continually test and review its designs and implementations. As the Web gains interfaces to new device capabilities, we rely even more on broad participation, testing, and audit to keep users safe and the web's security model intact. Therefore, W3C policy should assure that such broad testing and audit continues to be possible, as it is necessary to keep both design and implementation quality high.

Tantek: spec with a black box is unusual?
Alex: there are lots of black boxes
David: This one is different because it's in the middle of what we do rather than underneath.

Hadley: What happens next?
DKA: I think we're agreeing that the AB need to be involved, because so much of this is policy outside our scope. I think we should send the statement to the AB and continue to be involved as the AB sees fit, focusing on the architectural issues.
Tantek:That's a good message to send to the AB.

Other TPAC Stuff
Alex: streams have become a big issue. Has come up a lot this week. 
DKA: is a lot of the issue confusion on the word?
Alex: some systems tied to a clock. That drives progress through their system. If you plug a stream in there is behavior that has to be defined. It's a different model from network streams or file streams. We have to open up an issue and look at it. 
DKA: It's a general issue.
Alex: We have to go do some research.
Alex: lots of discussion about different sorts of WebIDL in use, sort of cross-cutting
DKA: [other stuff I added to our issues list: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues]

More on Security Questionnaire
Some issues:
https://github.com/w3ctag/security-questionnaire/issues
Wendy: It's useful to put this at CC0 because we want people to incorporate it into documents that they're publishing. This will make it compatible with whatever they're doing. 
[consensus -- including Wendy -- to publish at CC0 on TR space]
RESOLVED: We will publish it to TR space under CC0.

-Adjourned-
