Present: plinss, mnot, dbaron, hadley, Travis,Yves, slightlyoff, Yan
Chair: Peter
Scribe: Travis the master

*Topic: Credentials API Re-Review Request
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/49#issuecomment-137444228
dka: mike west asked for a re-review of issue 49, as well as any other joint "mike" projects
plinss: shall we invite him?
dka: already done. He won't be there in person, but will join us in the morning of our second day in Boston.
plinss: anything more?
travis: has anyone else looked at the issue?
dka: call to action for folks: please re-read.

*Topic: Web Payments Charter Feedback
mnot: I'm dreaming!
...: I gave several waves of feedback :)
... 1) not so good charter in terms of prose
... 2) confusion about the deliverables
... remaining feedback after hearing what's in their heads--I don't feel it will succeed. Charting without proposed docs, or a particular direction or concrete deliverables. It's very hand-wavy... I feel this is important to the W3C.
... I moved much of this conversation over to the process CG for discussion.
plins: do we as the TAG want to send collective feedback vs. individual feedback?
mnot: I didn't see much we could say as a TAG
mnot: alex was also somewhat frustrated with it.
dka: Q for Boston: what role does the TAG play in review of technical charters?
... how formalized do we want to get?
mnot: +1 for discussing that. This can be our concrete example.
mnot: re:this charter, I still have my doubts.
alex: I also had feedback individually, which is largely +1 of mnot's view.
plins: Adding to the Boston f2f agenda...

*Topic: Face-to-face planning
alex: let's ensure we have time on Monday to have David Dorwin call in, and other DRM topics.
dka: Alex: please send me the specific names for adding to the agenda.
... I invited Jeff J. to join us to discuss W3C governance issues
... Also intend to invite Wendy S. to join us part time.
... Should we get Nick Doty on the phone for fingerprinting stuff?
mnot: we were still waiting on him for something right?
dka: yes... perhaps waiting would be better
mnot: he'll be at TPAC, we could meet there.
dka: We have a bit more structure on our upcoming dev meetup. Links on the agenda. Please help to GET THE WORD OUT! 
... on Tuesday evening, we're invited to Tim's house for dinner. There will be a van for transport to/from. (Well, maybe from... :)
mnot: Tuesday for lunch, I'm attending a thing, others are welcome to join! Sent mail about it.

*Topic: Austrailia Face-to-face
plinss: conflict with Davos
dka: zeroing in on a time... 13-15th of Jan?
... still need to check with Tim.
plinss: I'll pencil in the dates on our calendar.
mnot: please ring me when the dates are SOLID so I can book space.

plinss: anything else?
...
... OK! See you all next week.
