TAG Teleconference 
09 December 2015

Present: 
    Brad Hill, Mike, Peter, Tim, Travis, Mark, David (lost audio 8 minutes in and gave up), Yves, yan
Regrets: Alex

Chair: Dan
Scribe: Mike (up until the CSP bits at the end)

--

Agenda

		* More Fun with Keygen (Travis)
		* Especially Issued Rasied by Brad
		* Guests Brad Hill and Mike West invited to join
		* Security Questionnaire (Yves)
		* F2F Meeting Planning (Dan/Peter)
		* Promise Issue from Domenic (Alex)
		* Our feedback requested on CSP latest draft (Alex)

-- 

Dan: Main topic is the <keygen> topic. Comments from Brad on the doc.
... Nicely written. Mike supported on Twitter. Worth talking it through in a 
little more detail to determine what actions we need to take on this
document, what action on larger topics?

Travis: Finally published a draft document in the GitHub repo. Issue tracker
for the doc. Process is working wonderfully. Issues filed, etc. Let's talk about
Brad's feedback.

Brad: Meta concern. I look at the landscape of the W3C. Few different groups and approaches that are potentially competing for mindshare around these issues.

FIDO submissions, <keygen> folks, Credentials CG, Client Certificates, e-ID, etc. Many different approaches, and I'm concerned that this document will be weaponized by one or more of these groups.

Should tease out issues and make them explicit to mitigate risks. Origin bound, non-origin bound. Tracking. What properties are important when recommending a solution? If the TAG wants to take a stand on recommendations, we should be able to test those recommendations out against the existing proposals to see how they stack up and whether that's a reasonable result.

Tim: Makes sense. This work was focused on <keygen>, on that specific functionality. Perhaps the document should spell out the pieces of the puzzle. Use cases for <keygen> and other alternatives.

Travis: When we were discussing this, there wasn't a FIDO submission. Cautiously optimistic that something like could provide a replacement in the area of identity.

I share the concern that the document could be weaponized to push someone out of the way to get an agenda through, I view <keygen> as a way of creating an identity. Used in conjunction with the other parts of the system described in the document. I don't personally know FIDO very well, but I would like to look into it to see how it lines up to the requirements in the doc. Do you have concerns specifically about the requirements?

Brad: "Identity" touches on the core of my concern. It's a very broad term. Federated identity space. Who controls the authenticator material. What claims are made by whom, and with whom are they shared. Dangerous territory to say that user need to have an identity online. Concerns there.

In developing FIDO, we arrived at the conclusion that FIDO was about authentication, not identity. You can provision a key for an origin, and provide proof of key continuity. "I have the same key you saw last time."

Up to the relying party to determine how to associated identity claims to those keys. But the I-word doesn't appear in those specs. That's a deliberate choice.

There are a lot of agendas around that. In this document, it's not clear what "identity" means. Who sees attributes on certs? Who sets them? These are deep and fundamental questions about the systems we're creating. Touching on them only a little might do more harm than good.

Travis: That's valuable feedback that I can use to possibly remove "identity" as a word from the document. I think you're saying that that would avoid touching that particular issue without doing it justice.

[Dan: +1  to removing "identity"]

BRad: IT's a big topic, yeah. Defining the properties of <keygen> that we like, and pointing to ways those properties appear in these other proposals might be a reasonable way of doing it.

Dan: We don't want this doc to be a referrendum on client certs. We need to keep the scope away from that area.

Tim: What do you mean?

Dan: The use of client certs in general. I don't think it's something we want to call into question in this document. I think the assumption is that client certs are [in use].

Tim: We should explain that client certs are one thing you could use. They have certain properties that are interesting. Share public keys, etc.

Travis: Client cert isn't "identity". It's a tool to make a connection.

Tim: We might not want to be tracked across origins, but in some cases you might explicitly want to share an identity from one origin to the next. I think it's reasonable to only talk about the public key.

Brad: That's one of the central issues in my feedback. There are systems that people use today to provide identity at scale. Login with Google, Twitter, etc. One of the objections is that the IDP knows to whom you're authenticating when. The document should call out the goals around correlation. Client certs are corellatable via collusion, etc.

Tim: Where's the correlation?

Brad: Use the same cert for Facebook and Twitter, they can share the public key via a backchannel.

Tim: Sure, but you make that choice.

Brad: Do users understand the choice? See the doubleclick fiasco where they were asking for client certs yesterday? They can strongly associate all my devices, etc.

Tim: If I choose to authenticate to doubleclick, then I've authenticated to doubleclick. You could imagine that choice being done badly, but you could imagine a better more explanatory UI.

Brad: That's why it's important to call out the requirements when designing the successor. You should assume that folks will abuse any loopholes. Those loopholes are commercially valuable. See cookies.

Travis: Do you have a link to the FIDO requirements/goals?

Brad: I can send a security analysis document we wrote.

Travis: That would be useful, thanks.

https://fidoalliance.org/specs/fido-u2f-v1.0-nfc-bt-amendment-20150514/fido-security-ref.html

Dan: On the topic of client certs, I'm trying to get data on usage. Used in UK government for example, internally in the BBC.

[Amusing anecdote about browser engineers being confused about client cert dialogs. Those browser engineers. They're funny.]

Dan: Can we close this out for now? Travis, you have some feedback.

Travis: I'm feeling that the TAG needs to understand FIDO and the big picture architecture to draw a comparison between its goals vs. "classic" client certs. 

Dan: F2F? Can you come up to speed on it?

Travis: I think I can do that.

Dan: Anyone else?

Mark: Sounds like the discussion is going in a good direction in terms of goals and requirements. Don't want to put our thumbs on the scales.

TOPIC: Questionnaire.

Dan: What's the current status?

Tim: Status of Chrome and native messaging? 
[silence]

Dan: Maybe we can leave that for next call.

Yves: Security questionaire will be published tomorrow, along with a blog post by nick dotty.

Dan: excited to see that and tweet it.

TOPIC: CSP Request for feedback on latest draft
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/42

Dan: Alex was on point, but isn't here... mike can you introduce it?
...what specific should TAG be looking at/for?

Mike: My goal for next version of CSP
1. Clean up rough edges of CSP 2
  Lots of hand-wavey places ..."browser does X, so do Y"
  Should be more integrated with Fetch, etc.
Want to have TAG see if the integrations align with the big pictutre of the web

2. Speed up adoption of CSP
  It's been a long time since CSP2
  Want to narrow the scope so that it forms a core that can be extended in a modular way.
  I'd like TAG to look at core concepts that the spec defines; do they provide the right generic extension points?
  Do the modules (being currently defined) are they reasonable/understandable?
  It's not super clear to me where the lines should be drawn.
  One approach is a separate doc per thing, but if you start combining things, it may be harder to explain.
  
These are specifically what I'm interested in having the TAG look into/figure out.

Dan: I want to assign an action for this...any takers?
CSP is an HTTP thing? Mark? Looking at you...

Mark: I'm glad to look this over and give feedback; have had it open in that one background tab for awhile...

Dan: I'll put this on the Melbourne agenda. 

Mark: I'd love to have Mike come down to talk about it.

Mike: I'll dial in, but I'm "definately not flying down there".

Dan: Any more questions for Mike?

Travis: I've put Mike in contact with someone at Microsoft working on CSP.

Dan: Anything else happing in WebAppSec that we should be aware of or discuss?

Brad: Mike any liason opportunities for cookies in IETF or locally?

Mike: Mark is certainly aware of the cookie stuff in IETF.
He's been very helpful.
Looking at two changes in Chrome.
1. Making the secure flag in cookies actually be secure.
2. Cookie prefixes - a way to smuggle data to the server within the existing Cookie mechanism.
Must have a path to the root of the origin, be secure, and ..?
Allows devs to align cookies with the same origin policy.

Mark: When do you think those might ship?

Mike: Intent to ship went out today.. maybe around Chrome 49... march/april?

Dan: Any other browsers interested?

Mike: Mozilla has been excited about it. They are interested in making the "secure" change. I've seen marginal interest in the first party only cookies.
Mark (mozilla) has a proposal like this, but they haven't started working on it. It's being prioritized. I've heard very little from Microsoft/Apple.

Dan: Is the IETF liason/activity trying to standardize this?
Mark: Yes.
Dan: Clarified
Mark: good.

Mark N sent: https://github.com/httpwg/wiki/wiki/WatchList

https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-west-leave-secure-cookies-alone
https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-west-cookie-prefixes
https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-west-first-party-cookies

[draft-west-* I wonder how many of these there are?]

Mark: The leave-secure-cookies-alone one is the more significant of the three. cookie-prefixes is riding its coattails.

TOPIC: Domenic's request for comments on Promises

Dan: Tabled until Alex is with us.

TOPIC: Agenda for Melbourne?

...

Dan: OK, any other business?
Thanks to Mike/Brad for joining!

Next week is the last call of the year. In 2016, we have one call before our Melbourne meeting.
Dan: Please everyone, take a look at our agenda:
    https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/tree/gh-pages/2016/01-mel
    
Dan: Please add your own stuff there, we can organize it later.

