TAG Call 21 Oct 2015
Present: Dan, Hadley, dbaron, Travis, Alex, Yves

Topic: TPAC discussion

Topic: Shardow DOM (Travis)

Travis: been asked to overview for the TAG what's going on in the shadow dom spec.
... 5 major things of signifigance
... [description of shado dom]
... think about shadow doms the way a component - eg a text area - the way that's implemented in terms of a web component is in terms of a shadow dom - hidden away inside one signal element
... previously there was an encapsulation mode - shadow doms were open, visibile and available. e.g. you import a web component, you'd be free to interrogate down into the shadow dom - termed open.
... after some discussion with Apple and joint meetings we added support for closed encapsulation - prevents trivial disclosure of the contents of a shadow dom.
Dan: main justification
Travis: anti-tampering - not security - there are lots of ways to circumvent - it avoids accidentally tripping into a shadow dom
... the wg also wants to specify an isolated model - but closed is not that.
Alex: it's a topic of debate.
Travis: isolated is up for debate but not open and closed.
Travis: point 2- there used to be this element called "content" - e.g. your shadow dom implements a blog post comment and you want to put up scafolding around.
... implementations were concerned about performance impact.
... we abandoned the selector and content element itself.
... instead we have a new element called "slot" - more descriptive. exposes a name and anyone who wants to be distributed to that slot specifies that slot.
Travis: Point 3 - there used to be an idea that for any given element in the dom you could add any number of shadow doms to it...
... also element shadow... 
... pretty abstract and use cases questionable.
... now an element can have one and only one shadow dom.
... so "shadow" element removed.
... weird that you can add a shadow but not take it away.
Travis: Point 4: in earlier drafts of the shadow dom spec, when you fire events (e.g. mouse-over) that you want to lie to the page hosting the shadow dom so it looks like the events are coming 
... from the element instead of a composed structure. That's called event re-targeting. The spec still requires it. But it's been adjusted. They've added a property called "deep path" to the
...event object. This is a list of notes that the event is going to visit as it propogates. The deep path list of nodes are exposed or not depending on the open/closed nature..
... if the shadow dom is closed you don't even want to expose the nodes in the closed tree to the rest of the world. 
Travis: Point 5: nitty gritty of node distribtution to slots. proposed that the wg would develop a javascript API for distribution of said nodes.
... it was thought we could avoid having to put constraints if we could allow js developers to distribute nods themselves.
... there are some limitations of the slot approach.
... when the wg looked closely at what this js api would look like it got complicated.
... that API would have a lot of implications on when things are laid out - we don't have the algo for layout spelled out.
... that exploration was ultimately put on hold.
... current approach: let user agents do it.

Alex: this is a visible outcome. The implementers have a point. We don't know how the model should operate. Sync dist. looks thorny. Async dist. requires timing info. [some debate of various approaches]

Travis: lots of work to be done in that area. The wg decided it would be better to get a spec wrapped up.

Dan: What rating do we give it on the report card based on this analysis?

Travis: the grade certainly improves. 
https://extensiblewebreportcard.org
https://github.com/w3ctag/extensible-web-report-card/issues/26

[some further discussion - etherpad went down]

David: I'm a little disappointed to see the loss of any mechanism for the thing with the slots (the "component" or whatever) to determine what goes in to those slots.  It seems like an obstacle towards using this to explain existing parts of the Web platform.

Dan: other ways we can be active here?
Travis: continue to cheer them on

Alex: speaking to Ilyia at web performance wg at TPAC
The bluetooth folks - we can discuss with them at TPAC

Dan AOB?

Travis: I wanted to let TAG know - i have yet to send keygen mail out. It's something I hope to get done before TPAC.

adjourned.
