Present: plinss, hadleyb, dan, dbaron, alex, mnot, travis

Scribe: Travis

Topic: Navigation Error Logging
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/24

[Alex pages the context back in]
dan: are we still being asked for anything here?
alex: I think the decision was to go TLS only.
... should it exist: I think yes.
... dominic made a comment about promises--need to circle back about that.
... given no api, I think we're good for this.
dan: I'll add a comment to the issue.
alex: I think we can just close it.
... it was readily discussed.
dan: I'm closing it.

Topic: Navigation Timing
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/18 

dan: question was "does the group want our feedback?"
... sounds like they may not be at a good point for us to comment...sound right?
alex: we should see when they want us involved/scheduled.
... I think we should just close the issue, and say, please file a new issue when you're ready.
dan: I'd rather not close, but reassign to Boston F2F. 
alex: should we have someone from the spec attend to talk to us about it?
dan: shouldn't be too hard to get them (time difference is marginal from west coast)
... reassigning the milestone.

Topic: Frame Timing API
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/56

dbaron: wrote all the issues I found while reading through the spec
... the interesting bit, architecturally, is that it's very specific to how browsers work right now.
... normally this would bother me, but this doesn't, since it's specific to the spec scenario: performance measurement.
... may adapt to something in the future, but since we can't predict the future, I think this is good for the *now*
... most of my comments were about things missing from the spec that I felt should be there.
dan: alex have you reviewed dbaron's comments?
alex: I've been looking at the spec independently
... [sigh]
... it potentially leaks privacy issue -- visited links -- due to frame timing revealed.
... it's unclear what to do.
... not sure TAG has anything novel to say about it.
dan: I'll update the issue with your comment.
alex: I think this is a binary decision: don't ship this spec or fix visited links.
... I'd also like to see dbaron's comments addressed.
dan: if we keep the issue open, then we need to circle back on the privacy issue.
... [adjusts the issue milestone]
... maybe we can get Ilya to join TAG meeting in Boston

Topic: NFC
dan: I haven't had a chance to make progress on this, sorry.
... anyone have other comments?

Topic: Web Payments
mnot: charter is now proposed and we should take a look at it.
... deadline Sept. 15th.
hadleyb: any substantive changes?
mnot: not sure; we should take a look.
https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-new-work/2015Aug/0001.html
dbaron: depends on your definition of substantive
dan: we should look; perhaps add an issue to review it.

Topic: Battery API
http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2015/aug/03/privacy-smartphones-battery-life
dan: very related to our unsantioned tracking.
mnot: can be fixed with more appropriate granularity
alex: works with promises, so can insert a user-prompt.
... there may be APIs that _do_ require high precision info. If not this feature, then the next.
... seems like a good design principle to prepare to eventually support a user permission.
... implementation can work with the existing API to adjust timing, add prompts, etc.
dan: for accuracy, some data may want to be exposed, while other should be behind a prompt.
alex: what advice do we give the next sensor-related API spec?
... we ended up in the right place by using promises.
... register with permissions api
... design with asyc (to be able to add a prompt)
... treat the no-prompt version as a special case.
dan: should we make that feedback in the context of an API review we have coming up?
... is it NFC?
hadleyb: dan, should we reply to this specific battery issue?
dan: perhaps while the spotlight is on them, they don't need the TAG breathing down their necks.
... but if they want our feedback on their upcoming solution, we can offer it.
hadleyb: I think that's reasonable
dan: who's the editor?
... [makes an issue]

Topic: wrap-up
... I'd like to have another dev outreach at Boston again.
alex: if there's an existing JS/Webdev meetup, we could just go to that! (Instead of marketing our own.)
dan: I think there's value to socializing with web devs; panel discussion was long--we should try to keep it a bit shorter.
... I heard a lot of good feedback afterward.
mnot: HA I'm BACK.

Regrets:
mnot: I'm not available next week (12 Aug)
dbaron: I'm not available for next three weeks (12, 19, 26 Aug)
dan: me too, same as dbaron. I won't be able to chair.
travis: I'm not available for (12, 19)
plinss: I'm not available on the 26 Aug
hadleyb: In transition next week; may not have wifi (12 Aug)

Schedule:
CANCELLING TELCO: 12 Aug

Any other business?

New issues/topics for Boston F2F?

