TAG Teleconference - 30 Sepember 2015
Present: Dan, Peter, Yves, Travis, David, Alex, Yan

Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2015/telcons/09-30-agenda.md

		* Performance API
		* Keygen Feedback https://github.com/w3ctag/wiki/wiki/keygen 
		* Security Questionnaire @diracdeltas https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/77
		* Cross-spec device identification & association @slightlylate
		* CSSOM View document.scrollingElement @slightlylate
		* Navigation Timing 2 @slightlilate

--

TOPIC: Keygen
https://github.com/w3ctag/wiki/wiki/keygen 

Dbaron: hard to tell what it was arguing for
Travis: I wanted to allow an out for those who like keygen - for an implementation to improve it - but push on a modern way to do it
david: couldn't tell what this was trying to recommend (not super clear)
...: not clear on requirements (not just what it does, but why folks want them)
...: is it because web platform needs them because of legacy, or what is the specific reasons--they were discussed.
dka: thought it should be more angled toward a web component building on web crypto.
Use "rough TAG consensus" language.
Dbaron: the other thing - it's not very clear about what the requirements are - talks about some of the things that keygen does but not why people want those things. Not clear what the thing they need it for is.

TBL - Sorry I missed that discssion.  I thought at the face-face meeting we went over this.    MAybe we should 

Dka: I think we teased out some of those issues in discussion in BOS...perhaps we should be more explicit in the document?
travis: this is background and reasons why people are using <keygen>...the motivation in the first place?
dka: yeah.
travis: other thoughts?
alex: I think travis captured many of the use-cases well...trying to grok recommendations
alex: what's the note about improving <keygen>...is there any appetite for that?
travis: what I've been hearing today is that we need to be stronger about recommending a better replacement and perhaps remove the recommendation to remove
alex: might be good to leave the list of potential improvements so folks understand where it's weak
travis: right, wanted the full list so people can understand the size of the task
travis: what do folks think about FIDO?
dka: yeah, lets keep it simple
dka: should bump this issue to the next call with an eye to publish next time?
dka: post a link to public mailing list? Ask for feedback. 
plinss: market this as a draft... finding? spec review?
dka: it's sort of a spec reivew...documentation of consensus around this issue...
alex: I'd hate to waste a Finding on this.
Spec review Note == TAG Thing.
travis: is it fine where it is in terms of linking?
dka: I think it's fine where it is. Lets put the changes from this conversation in and then post it to www-tag. We can leave it at that
<discussion of asbestos outerwear; fashionable for every season!>
plinss: lets make a new repo, perhaps "client certificates" so we can add issues there
plinss: another point, there's a layering issue. Client certs are at the TLS level, not at HTTP today. Eventually we should want unified authentication.
travis: bring out feedback that someone needs to fix the HTTP2 integration of client certificates.
<a wild yan appears! it's super effective>
travis: to revise, send mail

TOPIC: Security Questionaire

yan: we were going to publish this at a versioned URL...someone said it should have a status section. What was this going to be? Note? Finding?
plinss: a Formal Note, IIRC.
yan: mike had thought finding, but Findings don't have status usually
yves: notes have status. I can take care of the status of the document section
yan: in that case, i think it's good to go!
<logistical discussion>
dka: so yan+yves will work to get published as Note!

TOPIC: perf API

alex: I've failed. Can we punt to next week?

TOPIC: cross spec device identification

alex: I've also failed at this.

dka: other input on these? No? Other business? Sapporo?
travis: we talked about meeting, not Monday morning but some other time...does anyone know what we agreed to if anything? Tues/Fri?
dka: monday and friday are when we have the room
alex: are there groups we need to have conversations with?
dka: we did say we wanted to discuss opportunistic encryption/encrypted HTTP. Will follow up with mnot on that. Other suggestions?
dka: if monday morning is a bad time to meet, perhaps we can have a checkpoint on Monday noon. Should have dedicated time on Friday.


<ADJOURNED>


