
# W3C TAG Minutes: Stockholm 2016-07-29

Scribe: Hadley

Present: Peter, Dan, Travis, Yves, Hadley, David, Alex, Andrew

Agenda:  https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2016/07-stockholm/agenda.md 

# TAG's role

hadley: Have we agreed what the role of the TAG is?  I'm not sure we have. 
alex: The role of the TAG is to advice and consent on relevant issues related to the architecture of hte web platform.
mnot: How do we efficiently get that done?
dka: I think the mission of the TAG is what's on the web site...  
plinss: I think it's more about what are we doing on a daily basis, and are we effective? Can we be more effective?  That's worth considering.
hadley: when I joined, I remember alex saying spec reviews are our heartbeat function.
alex: We have no relevance outside of that. 
mnot: I'd say it's the most effective way we can effect the platform.
...But I think we should have that discussion on Saturday afternoon.
dka: I think this discussion comes up when we are not sure we are being effective. Especially right now, we don't have any big rallying topics driving our attention. Like we did in Berlin, when we were looking at unsanctioned tracking and fingerprinting.  Or security and encryption.  We don't have that rallying cry this meeting. That maybe makes us want to do more metaphysical examination of our work. But I'm not sure it's helpful right now.
travis: I think there are big topics we could explore, if we wanted to. We could always take up TimBL's latest focus, exploring decentralisation.
dka: I think it's up to us on whether to take that up.  There is no spec to review.  It's architecture astronautics.
alex: worth noting that astronauts are launched into orbit, which they can't control.
dka: If people want to suggest work items around redecentralisation, or other topics, then that is our remit. We aren't purely reactive.  We can generate those work items. Web packaging is a good example.
alex: That's looking like it will pay off this year.  Weâ€™re implementing it. Use case:  peer to peer mesh networks with wifi direct.  You need a way to package that up.
mnot: can you point us to a description to share?
alex: the other half is we do need a format that we can sign.
mnot: we've been working on that too.
alex: the package format we designed with the TAG can do that. Re content rehosting, we see a lot of places wanting to use web content out of context, but with proof of origin. The package format is crucial to having this work.
plinss:  I like that idea for signing a package, but tehre are aslos use cases for signing individual resources.
alex: you'll need an hmac at the end, so you'll need a wrapper.
mnot: there are a lot of ways to do this.  It woudl be good if there were a bit of compatibility.
plinss: exactly.  TimBL had some ideas for a peer-to-peer fallover mode for HTTP.  If I can't get to wikipedia, I may want to get that content from other people who have downloaded that content from Wikipedia, but I want that to be signed by wikipedia.
dka: Do we want to officially mothball packaging? If so, we need an owner.  It's a w3c editor's draft, editor is JeniT, who is no longer on the TAG.  
yves: plan is to put that back into the WICG.
travis: if you want to see that published, Alex, then we should push it forward.
dka: Right now that doc is in our repo.  This is the latest version.
yves: we should move it to WICG.
plinss: there is a version on TR. 
dka: isn't this the latest though?
yves: We had a discussioon about this 3-4 f2fs ago, and decided it should go to WICG
dka: if we think this is architectural enough, we should own it.
alex: I can redirect the folks on my team who are working on it. 
dka: I think it's in limbo, rather than having gone to WICG. We came to a consensus to cede it to WICG, but they declined to take it up.
yves: Right, so we eed to find someone to take ownership.
alex: So I'll suggest to my team who are working on it to move a copy over to WICG and work on it from there.
dka: Okay. But it is a TR document.  Doesn't that demote it?
yves: We can address that in the status of the document.
alex: So that's an area where we led on something. And it turns out it wasn't the final resting place for the design, but it was a useful addition for the set of tools in our toolbox.  Not sure what that means? but if there are other things we are excited about, I agree we should take the lead.
dka: Agreed.
... It's up to all of us to come up with those sorts of things; they don't just materialise. Packaging -- jeni had a paricuarly interest.
yves: It came from a use case from Anne.
alex: and Jeni came up with the eventual design.
dka:  Shall we move on?

# Ads and tracking

andrew: we have the IAB chap this afternoon
dka: that was specifically around LEAN.

hadley:  [outlines the problem]
alex: there is some work going on.  You can imagine many aspects in which ads could be abusive. They are constrained by the web's origin model etc, but they don't have any reasonable limits in terms of performance degredation. 
travis: S othat's a new verticAL: ads and performance
alex: it's also money.  In many cases ads vastly outweigh the weight of the content you're tyring to access. So if yoiur'e on a meetered connecxtion, yo may not be able to access much content because you can't afford it. So the ecosystem risks is that people may block all ads outright.  One solution may be to apply a policy to limit the performance... there is a content performance polciy in WICG that limits the total amount of content you can put into an iframe.
andrew: is it still live? I thought the Content Performance Policy was replaced by the Feature Policy API.  Also there is the HTML sandbox... all specs appear to be live and don't link to each other. 
...On the ads point, the principle of using one fo these things to apply policy to an iframe.... the problem is the iframe iwn't hte handoff point between the publisher and the advertiser -- ti's the javascript library.
dka: but if iframes were restricted, wouldn't they use something else?
andrew: the handoff point is where the publisher could impose technical constraints on the advertiser. If that mechanism is built into the iframe, that moves the handoff point.  currently we allow advertiser code into the host page.
travis: at which point you are letting it do what it wants to do.
david: which is a problem in and of itself.
...are there features we could add to iframes to make them more tolerable as the boundary?
andrew:  Adverts want to expand over the content of the page.  Legitimate discussion there on whether that's acceptable beavhiour in the first place. If not, you can constrain ads with iframes. Other: data collection by the ads. You could argue maybe is a good thing; maybe any data the ad should have access to should be passed through the iframe.  Also, AMP is an interesing player here because it enforces the iframe as the handoff point. All the ad activity has to happen inside the iframe. Movement in that direction, but not currently how we do it.
alex: feature policy allows a header.
travis: advertisers -- you wouldn't want to rely on them to do that.
[discussion of how Feature Policy works]

dka: key points here... who controls the experience the user is getting? the publisher? the advertiser? 
hadley: the user?
dka: the blocker?
...Same with performance, privacy and intrusiveness. 
andrew: this is a great example of where multiple standards interact ... architectural issue.
hadley: agreed.
travis: so if you provide me a script and I run your script, I have ceded control to you.
alex: that's a good way to think about scripts.
travis: it's hard to distinguish between an ad infrastructure and any other script I want to import into my page. 
dka: As a publisher, say you're the Guardian... if an ad provider says "use this script and our ads will show up"
travis: I'll say "sure" and I'll load their script in a web worker!
dka: Well, assuming you do want your users to see those ads, so you get paid... there is that handover of control
travis: If I don't include your script, then I don't get paid. I don't have a lot of recourse there.
dka: Yes; that's where the policy enforcement bit comes in.  You can say, "I'll only run scxripts that..."
alex:  You want to preserve performace and variance, site-wide, about the experience you've designed, even in the face of third parties you trust.  A third party shouldn't be able to ruin that. But now there is no way to turn that off.  I think Feature Policy is the current attempt to solve that.
dka: A lot of this is between the handoff of power bweteen the publisher and advertiser.
andrew: can we clarify this is a gross oversimplification.  We actually have a publisher, an ad delivery platform, that then interacts with auction markets to deliver programmatic advertising.  Then you have the advertisers, and the agencies that build the ads and serve the content.
alex:  And who trusts whom is fascinating.
hadley:  where is our user?
dka:  Yeah... not in this picture.  

plinss: monitising your website is not a violation of the core architecture of the web.
hadley: I agree. but I also think it's my choice as a user to participate -- or not -- in that. Or to have content not availalbe to me because it's been monitised in a way I don't want to participate in.

alex: it seems to me the info deficiencty is that hadley by installing a ad blocker doesn't have a way of announcing that she doesn't want to participate in the commercial offer available.  Not that she doesn't want to have a clear conversation about it, but that she doesn't have another way to set up a commercial arrangement.  So all of the options for technical good faith are gone, and the trust is eroded.  What if Hadley, in a header, when she went to a publisher's website, said, I'll only say ads that look like this.  I prefer this specific type. And, as a result of having told you that, I now feel legitimately able to block ads that don't meet that policy. That would give everyone an opportunkity to make a market. The failure is a result of no one having enough info to make a market.
hadley: sure. And I'd add that I'd be willing to pay... $.02 for an article, for example.
[discussion over pricing differentiation and capitalism]


dka: I summarised Alex by saying ad blockers are a blunt instrument. Is that right?
alex: well they're silent. They're petty theft.
travis: there is no back channel to the provider that anything is happen
dka: Are you arguing for a super do no track?
alex: Well, part of the story was that hadley can legitimately block content that doesnâ€™t meet her policy.
...If I choose to use a specific browser or extension, I can adopt their policies. 
...This is petty theft.
mnot: is a screen reader theft?
alex: maybe, but it's not the point. the amount of traffic is so small it's not relevant.
andrew: advertisers don't care about individuals...
...It's a problem of mismatched incentives. I don't see it as theft.
...Opera is perpetuating this, for example.  Blocking all ads without telling the publisher, and with no carve-out for 'acceptable' ads.  If we had a policy, we could decide if we care enough about users on that browser, we can tailor adverts to their policy.
dka:  If you are a content provider and you detect that someone is using Opera, you can ask the user to white list based on your behaviour
mnot: wired asked me recently to turn off my adblocker or to pay $1/week.... Which is $52 US a year, which isn't a good deal for the amount I use it.  So I opened the page on a browser without a blocker... but I didn't give them the tracking data that would've come from my main browser.  I tweetd about this, and I got pummeled from well respected people that I was stealing from those journalists.  
...Before that, I spoke to a media conglomerate who are very interested in privacy-preserving micropayments.  Granularity... which is what would've made me happy to pay Wired. This feels like what the music industry did... "Buy the album!"
alex: I don't think we as technologists can convince people not to be bad capitalists.
mnot: No but we can give them the tools to do it.
alex:  It doesnâ€™t seem to me to be reasonable to upset that Wired has given you this choice.
 mnot: I  had other choicesâ€¦ and I took it. I was surprised that other people use it.
plinss: I donâ€™t use a blocker, but I do use disconnect to stop the tracking. So Wired assumes Iâ€™m using a pop-up blocker.  These are two distinct things, and theyâ€™re highly conflated in the ad industry. Iâ€™d like to see them separated.
andrew: Good point.  Work could be done there.
plinss:  I accept the ad industry wants this analytic data, but there is a cost to me to giving that. I donâ€™t necessarily want to pay that.  Iâ€™m fine to give you some of my attention. Iâ€™m fine to purchase some of those products. But I donâ€™t want to give up my privacy, my personal data.  Iâ€™m willing to accept more ads because you canâ€™t target me that effectively.
andrew: and some people are willing to accept more targeting.
dka: so user choice is a key issue here, again.  
travis: I think it's interesting ... Feature Policy is a thing not related to user choice. It's publisher choice.  Content provider setting up an agreement but doesn't relate to the user.
alex: YOu can imagien the user setting a header to override that
travis: that looks like an ad blocker
andrew: What are the separate architectural issues here?  1) The mechanisms by which publishers can enforce technical standards on advertisers in order to improve performance of their websites.  Some combination of Feature Policy, CPP, and HTML sandbox, probably.  That helps publishers to make advertisers better.  
hadley: that would work for the user if the user can express a preference directly, or if competition incentivises publishers to produce ads that are in the users' interests.
dka: Yes -- otherwise it's purely between the publishing ecosystem and the ad ecosystem and doesn't have to do with the user.  Is there something architectural we can say that addresses the issue of people installing ad blockers
hadley: or being stuck having to download a significant amount of data to view a small amount of content?
mnot: reduce the friction around payment to give new models viability.  beyond that, ossifying the current situation in standards isn't terribly useful.
andrew: underlying problem: fix micropayments. and also give publishers better ways to serve ads.
hadley: but I'm still concerned agbout the user not being able to represent their needs. If I'm on a data-restricted connection...
mnot: savedata?
andrew: publishers could respect that, yes.  
alex: you could pair the warning with an enforcement tool that says, "I'm probably going to modify your content here."
andrew: We're not locking connections, or signing a visual representation of content. This is a good example... airlines are starting to say, "we won't put screens on the back of seats anymore; you can use your own device."  But some are uncomfortable that you might be able to record it. So you can rent a device from them.
[divergence into DRM]
...So all of this is buit on incentives
alex: and trust
andrew: have we given the user sufficient incentives to not block our adverts?  Again, we don't care if one user blocks our adverts. We care if a lot of users do.
travis:  iT"s a feature of the web that you can modify content.. like, for accessiblity reasons. But if 98% of all users turned on high contrast and that changed imagery on the site, the provider would probably change their site.  I think we're seeing something parallel with ad blockers. 
alex: It's unclear what message to take

andrew: have we reviewed Feature Policy? (https://wicg.github.io/feature-policy/) Is it at a state when we should?
Discussing whether ad-blocking choosing users are a small group (minority) for which we should try to help...
david: seems like we should put more energy into caring about the users who don't know about the privacy issues than the expert users who do
andrew: we are diving back into the realm of tracking (and we wrote up a finding on unsanctioned tracking)
...we're not trying to build a forced ad consumption into browsers.  We're trying to fix what people see as enough of a problem that they opt out.
dka: through reducing friction of payment and mechanisms by which publishers enforce policy enforce policy on advertisers.
hadley: I'd still like to see something for the users
dka: Well the "save data" header... why wouldn't a user always send that?
andrew: because you wouldn't get high quality video, custom fonts, large images, etc.  There is a tradeoff. That said, I think the save data thing is a good idea.
... We could look at navigation timing and bitrate.
alex: you should probably also look at the RTT.
travis: and now we know htat with QUIC you can parallelise your content streams.
andrew: so there are things we can do without the save-data header.
dka: who is working on that?
mnot: ilya is on it:
http://httpwg.org/http-extensions/client-hints.html
dka: Is there more we can do on allowing users to assert what they want, and having a trust-but-verify relationship with the content providers?
alex: what you need is a standardised way of expressing what you'll opt out of.  No animated video, etc. You can imagine formalising it with IAB language.
dka: What is the TAG role in this?
andrew: LEAN is a part of it. It's developing slowly. They have identified the variables which they want to make part of the calculation. They've expanded on each of the elements of LEAN, identitified some important metrics for each term.  Boundaries coming next year.
dka: We should ask if they're in discussion with any blocker vendors, to whitelist LEAN ads?  I'd love to have that option.

# EME (UlpS)

responding to https://twitter.com/KingstonTime/status/757541675543699456 which links to https://www.defectivebydesign.org/edge-netflix-eme

[discussion about studio preferences for DRM characteristics and Edge's integration with the OS]

dka: this isn't really in the TAG's remit
alex: the assertions seem slightly confused based on the state of DRM today. This seems about technical constraints that studios impose about levels of protection of their content.
dka: I think the anti-DRM crowd would say that's true, but W3C EME has enabled studios to make those choices on the Web platform
travis: Back to why we started on the journey of EME â€” flash was being used for DRM. Would still be used for it if we didn't have EME.  We didn't want that...
dka: the equivalent argument on mobile: you have a web-based mechanim, vs a native app.
alex: wouldn't it be nice if studios used technologies that worked. Because DRM doesn't.
mnot: are we setting a precedent that we'll discuss every tweet?
dka: Okay, let's move on. 

[Andrew takes over scribing, beware]

# Web accessibility API

travis: 1. opt in websites will built logic that does not have corresponding DOM so hard to make that part of app accessible, can't use ARIA, can;t be exposed to ac layer.
... maybe virtualised lists, "4 of 100,000", but only 6 DOM nodes exist
travis: 2. ATs are an input to the browser but has no way to trigger actions
... traditional model is UA loads content, user pokes at it via keyboard/mouse, 
... AT model is different, reveals a hierarchical structure, focus on one object at a time
... each thing you're looking at will have a set of possible actions
... need to send input commands from the AT.  Early ATs would just offer 'click' or 'activate default action'.  Doesn't cover all actions
... AC community wants to open up range of possible actions
... mapping between accessibility actions and HTML is HTML-AAPI (accessibility API mappings)
... JS API would enable content people to have more control over the accessibility, gives more extensible arch, handle accessibility for things that don't have DOM elements
... ARIARequestEvent and ARIACommandEvent
... ARIARequest surfaces questions asked by the AT, which may not map to a DOM element
... Can help avoid continuously recomputing state
... This was implemented in last release of Edge and removed from latest release
... New spec says that from any DOM node you can get an associated accessibility node
... can also create accessibility nodes that have no associated DOM
... so instead of creating hidden DOM nodes you can create virtual accessibility nodes instead
alex: I'm concerned about the cost of event dispatch, also how parenting and reparenting works.  What happens if you move the accessibility nodes around, or/then move a source DOM node?
... also why does this need to run on the main thread?
travis: both proposals are trying to tackle the same set of problems
alex: where do we feedback?
travis: not on W3C radar.  vendors hashing out ideas
dan: is Steve Faulkner involved?
travis: he has been defining HTML mappings for accessibility, not these specs
dan: is this about creating an extensible approach to accessibiltiy?
travis: yes
... the ARIACommandEvent allows ATs to initiate accessibility actions
david: one of my concerns is building things that need to be used explicitly by site developers rather than just using the base technologies correctly
travis: this is definitely extra work that most people won't do
david: this is for people doing advanced work of rebuilding fundamental controls
alex: they're broken already, we need the flexibility
david: we should fix the native things also
alex: what does that mean though?  Could be multi-year task.  All controls contain MVC inside, can't be customised
travis: it is def worth continuing to work on default accessibility stuff. Styling is one of the bigger hurdles

[wendy and mike join on a hangout.  Wendy appears as a kind of mysterious green mist]

# Secure contexts

mike: the state of secure contexts has not changed significantly.
... we asked for consensus to move to CR.  Minimal feedback
... Serviceworker group gave feedback yesterday from their F2F, concerns over new windows opening
... we make efforts in the spec to avoid new browsing contexts to have access to previous windows
... we're adding a mechanism in CSP to allow pages to disown their parent by default
... SW group is concerend that navigation to a new context can be 'tainted'
dan: I don't see any need for the TAG to have any co-publication on this document
... we are supporting it as much as possible
... we have an opportunity to feedback at the CR phase.
travis: I'm curious to know the context of the SW folk issue
mike: https://github.com/w3c/webappsec-secure-contexts/issues/42
wendy: "all new powerful features should require secure contexts" is a helpful statement from the TAG
travis: gut feeling is that new specs are applying the secure contexts requirement
wendy: I had to give that feedback to the wake lock API group just yesterday
mike: it's not trivial to decide what 'powerful' means
... we don't define that
... current spec has broad advisory examples, not a specific definition
dan: the previous def of powerful feature was useful, esp when talking to developers
andrew: where was that?
dan: it was in the original version of the doc
... would it be useful for the TAG to provide a finding as a companion to the secure contexts spec
peter: we do have something already in a TAG finding, but it's weak
... https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/web-https
mike: current spec couches things in terms of threat models
... but it does not have normative requirements
hadley: doesn't seem very scalable
alex: our role to create consensus with hands on review
travis: we should see every spec that goes through
mike: we've deprecated features in blink that we should not have shipped in non-secure contexts
... WebVR has many of the same arguments taking place
... it would be useful for TAG to review some of these threads
travis: there is push back against not exposing features in non-secure contexts?
mike: yes
mike: some people object to PKI process, others want more adoption of the features
alex: as long as that's the gist of the discussion we understand it
dan: wendy, your thoughts?
wendy: good for this doc to be more descriptive in terms of what is a secure context
so it could be valuable to have a TAG finding that were normative, recommending secure contexts for situations meeting the threat model
dan: I'm supportive of a companion finding if it pushes the agenda forward
... we can keep putting pressure on to speed adoption of https
travis: this doesn't block the spec
david: prior objection came from ekr, his objection was that the most sensitive things that you deal with not a powerful feature, eg record of visiting a specific site
... potentially no objection to making *new* things require SCs
mike: I have no requests to make of the TAG, don't mind if it's a joint publication or not
peter: We don't need it to be
alex: we can lend credence if that would be useful
travis: we don't want to change the doc as it stands
mike: will publish it as a webappsec doc
dan: can you link to the TAG's securing the web finding?
mike: surprised it's not there already
alex: we're not recommending incremental changes to CSS require secure contexts
wendy: where there are not existing expectations, the expectation should be secure only
andrew: so it's more about practicality?
mike: there will come a day when we never ship another feature without requiring secure contexts.  That day is not today
... there's not enough appetite for this today
alex: right now we're at the start of the curve, at some point that momentum will become self-sustaining
hadley: changing the default is interesting though. Moving from optimised for sharing (as the web and internet standards have been historically), with security as a secondary thought, to a scenario where security is more baked-in... That could be really useful.
andrew: so today we are opting in features, next step will flip and opt out features, finally everything will be in with no exceptions
mike: look at some of the edge cases, eg microphone and camera
... you mentioned houdini earlier, nothing technically new there, should that be considered powerful.  Not an easy question to answer
... new is easier to define than powerful
... but applying to all new things is probably premature
peter: there is discussion in houdini about SCs
alex: houdini is less incremental, not as comparable to CSS features
... we need to write up something about transitioning to TLS
dan: we are not joining the publish of the spec
... we will be getting out of the way of publishing the doc in webappsec
... there *may* be a call for a finding, it would be useful, wendy has asked for it
wendy: I see it as part of the sequence of steps to more universal use of TLS
dan: we'll take that away, thanks for joining us.

# Tor browser

dan: where does the tech stand right now?
wendy: tor browser is built on firefox code with features removed that could be used to identify users
hadley: any headlines in last 6 months?
dan: any particular attacks on user privacy?  What can we learn from tor browser?
wendy: it would be good to consider the tor browser / network technology use case in more reviews
... there is a doc on the tor browser design principles (https://www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser/design/)
... it's useful to have in the feature and arch considerations, there may be stronger privacy considerations for some users, it should be possible to toggle features that are privacy-concerning
hadley: is that working, or does it break the web to support the choices that tor browser users need?
wendy: if your app depends on webrtc then no, it doesn't work!
... javascript and cookie sandboxing also a problem for some sites
... heuristic theat modelling and DDOS prevention systems like cloudflare, maybe sends an endless series of captchas
dan: that's happening more and more on the open web
... trying to get to ba.com from the ba lounge, got a captcha
mike: cloudflare has an FAQ on why tor browser might be blocked:  https://support.cloudflare.com/hc/en-us/articles/203306930-Does-CloudFlare-block-Tor-
... malicious behaviour is more prevalent with users on tor browser
andrew: they're profiling.
wendy: threat modelling is moving to heuristics, less predictable for people trying to do good but corner case uses of tech
hadley: what if cloudflare decided to block all traffic over tor, what percentage would that be?
wendy: don't have any numbers, though it varies for different user groups
... https://metrics.torproject.org/
hadley: publishers and advertisers power imbalance with users, smaller groups are small enough that other people need to take action on their behalf
wendy: sometimes people get caught up in anti-fraud heuristics around payments which blocks people using tor, making it even more difficult for tor users to demonstrate their economic significance
hadley: can we do anything?
alex: no
dan: do you have any stats?
wendy: see metrics.  we don't collect behavioural data on usage, obvs.
mike: can't see anything for the TAG to do, but maybe look at the design decisions that the tor browser developers have made.  they do some interesting things
... also look at the containers project at Mozilla
... I want to look at isolation in more detail by TPAC
wendy: I have been collecting ideas for a possible workshop on next steps in privacy.  containers is an interesting feature
... maybe there are pieces that are worth discussing
dan: maybe worth doing a breakout session on that at TPAC
mike: privacy interest group is meeting on Wednesday. [Tuesday, actually]

[having a break.  kitkat optional]


# ARIA

with special guest Richard Schwerdtfeger
and also LÃ©onie Watson, Michael Cooper

Richard: The reason we had ARIA was because people were creating custom UI components
... ARIA provides a way to define semantic cues for components
... authors are constantly innovating new types of components
... SVG has no components, we are having to create a new taxonomy
... authors are having to understand accessibility more than they should
... we're creating a new taxonomy for digital publishing, eg comics
... how do we make this more extensible?  eg with web components
... other issue is styling.  authors need to do less work.  Supply semantics and styling all together so author doesn't need to think about it.
... do we need to create an aria role for every html semantic
... api is a good solution for lots of things
... need something extensible, which requires people to be less of a technology expert.
... at TPAC, we would like to review the ARIA 2.0 requirements
... ARIA work has created a common declarative API in HTML and SVG
... we want to discuss with TAG how we move forward with ARIA 2.0
dan: Michael & Leonie?
Michael: what do you mean by ARIA timeline? Next recharter (July 2018)?
Rich: yes
Leonie: roles for HTML components?
dan: we discussed accessibility api
Richard: we expose info to AT, we don't allow them to control things
... control pattern approach, I would like to make it easier to use.  The API is very powerful
... challenge is getting all the platform owners to agree
... another challenge is complexity. Today you don't need to know JS to interact with product teams on accessibility
... can we push the responsibility to the browser, to move the complexity off the page
... interlock ARIA work with designated control patterns
... allows it to be bidirectional - allow the AT to control the application
alex: you don't want to add semantics to ARIA for blockquote?
Richard: we can do it, but it's complex, and we don't know if we need it
alex: people creating web comppnents can get stuck because of holes in the taxonomies
Michael: we've struggled with whether ARIA should represent all known semantics, or whether just those recognisable to accessibility APIs
alex: I would be more comfortable with lack of parity if authors had tools to provide hinting more directly
... eg carousels.  Acknowledge that developers are building these custom things
... there is pressure to map known semantics.  Many people want to do things that ARIA does not have the ability to express
... one solution is extensibility
travis: is part of the challenge is making ATs interpret a new semantic classification in a particular way
Richard: Yes, this is a major challenge.  Sometimes we have to fund the AT vendors to make those changes
Michael: Two parts: mapping to an existing accessibility API, new features in accessibility APIs
alex: we have ARIA live.
Rich: ARIA live allows you to monitor a portion of a document, but it is misued by developers
alex: and AT's view this as not first class?
Rich: users don't expect it.  We had a product team at IBM doing grpahics, no keyboard support.
... AT is not speaking when you navigate to an element
... draw a rectangle around the element and have the AT read it using a live region
... not working with the AT in the way that it is designed
... when you move focus, an event is generated.  Magnifier can then zoom to that spot.  Live region broke this
alex: is there a minimal set of missing concepts in the browser's comms with the AT
alex: watching for visual changes and following focus
Rich: screen readers used to do that.  AT vendors are now increasingly using APIs rather than visual change
alex: by creating a better API the vendors moved away from scraping the content directly
Leonie: Some browsers do continue to scrape
travis: is there a general pattern of 'something is focused and i can interrogate it for links from that to other focusable things'
Richard: we have relationships, tells you if there is a flow.  we don't have one for a focus sequence
travis: how is flow sequence different to a focus sequence?
Richard: flow does not describe how things are drawn on the screen
andrew: tabindex?
Richard: people will see a menu, will use up/down arrow, idea of ARIA is that you can tab to a component and arrow within it
travis: back to flow and relationships and focus order
Richard: controls: you might have an object, you press down arrow and it controls what appears on the other side of the screen.  Potentially want AT to move focus to the content area
... we have other kinds.  you can refer to an error message, which is different to a description.  Form field validation
travis: are any of these navigational relationships?
Richard: no
... ARIA pushes a lot of heavy lifting off onto the browser
travis: if I'm driving a screen reader, and I want to move to the next interesting thing?
Richard: focusable things
... Put a tabindex with a positive integer, makes things focusable
Leonie: With the tab key, tabindex will be the same either with or without AT.
... flows-to will provide shortcuts in some AT
travis: so we have a way of marking things as focus targets
alex: not exposed in any meaningful way, not orderable
travis: is that only a problem for sequential navigators?
alex: zones of isolation
... need to give developers access to be part of the decision making process
Richard: making it scriptable would be valuable
travis: good use case to cover with a scripable accessibility API
Leonie: ATs do not always navigate by focusable elements, most have shortcuts
... when something has a role, this conveys an expectation.  with the extensibilty thing users can define any new semantic
Richard: if you put a role on something you get an interaction behaviour, eg click on buttons
... it would be nice to do things so they are predictable
travis: today role=button conveys semantics but if it's not a real button it needs an onclick to make it activatable
Michael: if custom styling and interaction were available there would be less need for ARIA
Leonie: it causes a lot of problems when devs use role=buttom and expect the behaviour to apply
alex: what if applying a role had a similar effect as applying a mixin
... it's not that the ATs have failed, but the DOM has been poorly factored for devs
... what happens when you remove a role?
Leonie: it would revert to the native semantic
dan: ARIA as a brand. should it encompass extensibility and scripability of all the APIs?
Richard: people associate it with accessibility on the web.
... could be expanded to include APIs
... doesn't have to just be for accessibility, that would be great.
... we are not here to have a monopoly on stuff, one WG can't do it all
Michael: Should we explore the opposite argument, should we remove the need for ARIA?
... a lot of investment has been put into it
... it would be good to know which direction we favour
alex: same as with HTML / web components.  Create an env where ppl can expllore and we can't predict what is going to happen, then we can review and see hwat can be rolled into the next version
Leonie: good way to look at it
Richard: we have in our charter to look at ARIA 2
Michael: Do we need structured regular communication?
alex: TPAC?
Richard: trying to get 1.1 out the door so we can avoid being distracted
Micahel: want to get ARIA/TAG together at TPAC.  But how about other groups?
alex: I lean towards making roles and states extensible, all integration points
... people struggle to make new semantic elements accessible when there's no way to comm with AT
Richard: need to tie new things to something that an AT has seen before
Michael: XHTML was meant to support extensibility, but browsers didn't want to implement
travis: agree with alex
Leonie: a role is not 1:1 with an element, could be a whole bunch of HTML/tree
.. how children of elements with roles are treated is hard wired in ARIA
travis: what are the pieces that would allow a new, fully custom role to be defined.
Richard: somehow the author could apply a navigation template
... is there a simpler mechanism?
alex: approach that has been taken elsewhere on the platform is to provide JS APIs
travis: so we don't need a statically created language
alex: document.registerRole method?
... could you have a default announcement behaviour?
michael: does this move us more towards the web accessibility API that we've been thinking about.
... been thinking about this for years but it's a complicated project

# IAB LEAN update
("brandon" == Brandon Butterworth from IAB)

brandon: here to talk about LEAN and triangles because triangles are cool. 
<discussion about beards>
brandon: LEAN (http://www.iab.com/news/lean-principles-criteria-scoring/) has been presented to the ad industry as a set of principles to counteract the set of negative perceptions that consumers have around ads
brandon: we're viewing this as 3 constituents: consumers, publishers, and advertisers. This is a fundamental shift, so we're taking our time. Previously only publishers and advertisers were considered.
brandon: last year we published the criteria. This year we're trickling out the specific bits of guidance. This guidance helps define what's a "bad experience".  We've talked about escapability, security, file sizes, etc.
brandon: we're working with 100+ companies (both publishers and advertisers) to gather input and understand the restrictions folks are seeing. Toward the end of the year we'll be aggregating the guidance under algorithmic scoring. Saying "here's how you'll look at all these different factors and achieve a score". We'll release them to the market after that. We expect the weighting algorithm will be different on desktop than mobile, e.g. On desktop if you're talking about video vs. news feed experiences, they'll also be different.
brandon: once we push them out to the market and see how they'll score, we'll start to measure and see what sort of lines we can draw (this much for a gold start, this much for silver, etc.).
brandon: some folks want simpler things, but we wanted to go with algorithmic scoring to provide more flexibility and allow is to adapt as new tactics come into play.
brandon: this week we started reaching out to browser makers to participate in conversations this year, hopefully at our leadership meeting.
dka: some questions: some browser makers are bundling content-blocking and ad-blocking technologies into their systems. Are you having conversations with those vendors -- or ad-blocker vendors -- about whitelisting LEAN ads?
dka: the thinking that's behind that question is that as a user who is aware of adblocking, I might want to be doing it for reasons that are addressed by LEAN and, given the opportunity to say "yes, I'd have ads so long as they're LEAN", I might do that
brandon: there's a web browser that we're actively talking with that has blocking in it. There are 3 types of criteria in the LEAN space. The first is the advertising in the context of the content or service. The second is the network aspect; how the advertising is delivered from ad servers to the client. The third are the creative attributes; how it exists on disk.
brandon: we're accumulating criteria against all of these. When we look at browser participation, I expect that browsers will able able to manage "single impression" sorts of management, but across multiple impressions that'd require extra infrastructure.
andrew: do you think browsers would be able to be able to assess content against LEAN in the browser?
brandon: partially. Browsers are uniquely positioned to know how deliverying is going in a single delivery. Browsers are well positioned to establish scores for sites overall.
<discussion of publisher/ads negotiations; DEAL>
brandon: a part of DEAL is that publishers saying to users that they'll deliver a particular type of ads.
brandon: LEAN is about publishers holding the line with advertisers. We expect publishers to be held primiarily accountable for LEAN scores.
brandon: LEAN scoring establishes a consistent way of measuring how the user experience is behaving on pages, theoretically making it more attractive to buy advertising on those pages.
brandon: so it's both carrot and stick for publishers to implement this.
<discussion about browser conversations>
brandon: our constituency has changed; we historically looked at publishers exclusively. Tech lab served the whole industry. We're formalizing relationships with IABs globally as well (brand is globally licensed). It's important for us to have a bit of a different perspective now.
<discussion of: https://github.com/WICG/feature-policy>
alex: ....   .  Idea is to have a policy that applies to a document to e.g., disallow certain APIs or limit bytes downloaded, with violations reported (like CSP).  Allows enforcement+reporting or just reporting to get real-world logging of policy violations.  Is this attractive to you?
brandon: so let me try to understand...browser gets a policy, determines that some of the content violates that policy, and then the browser might report that back to the server?
<yes>
brandon: user deciding or first-party source of HTML?
alex: in the first pass it would be the first-party
andrew: e.g., the ability to disable document.write()
alex: document.write() is also one of the APIs we regret having added
brandon: ability to fine-tune what subelements are allowed to do... we're looking at saying maximum number of data calls.  Would be cool if you could mathematically ban rather than blanket ban.  Higher cost on client?
alex: much cheaper for us to do in the browser than for you to do any other way
brandon: today a publisher opens an iframe and then the russian doll situation takes over: everyone puts their own tracking pixels in and the rule of thumb is that if you go more than 3 redirects deep, it's probably fraud
alex: so would a document depth policy (don't allow iframes nested deeper than N) be useful to you?
brandon: yes
andrew: so it'd be good to have these efforts talking with each other
brandon: yes; LEAN is about measuring but not enforcing so it sounds like letting publishers enforce would be cool
brandon: beyond depth; having a maximum number of sub-elements that you'd allow loading into would be useful.
<discussion about what that means>
brandon: <brandon catches us up on how many tracking pixels get added via iframes>
brandon: if the publisher could say "in this iframe, only do a max of 3 data calls inside this iframe" that'd be useful.
brandon: this is hard to define, but it's common inside the publishing industry. The idea is capturing some CPM value even if you can't deliver the ad.
brandon: <discussion of content guidelines experience>
<history lesson>
andrew: we were talking about the handoff point between publishers and ad delivery networks; in most implementaions, the delivery network runs script in the host page although there are moves to change that (e.g., AMP). Does LEAN have anything to say about this? Do you think that putting the cutoff at the embedding boundary would help?
brandon: we had a project called Safe Frame; the reason we'd have difficulty with the handoff in the iframe is that in acceptance testing, the full-page takeover (interrupting experiences) when done as a user-controlled expansion score decently and make a lot of money, so if you are entirely within an iframe you can't expand over other elements.
brandon: Safe Frame is a formalization of "pub site files". Safe Frame handles this, recognizes that it's a massive security issue. We can't recommend moving over explicitly. 
brandon: as we're doing user testing of ad experiences, mousing over and expanding is scoring as...sufficiently not annoying...that we can't say "it's annoying, don't do it"
alex: I'd be fascinated to learn more about that data
brandon: we published data this week, including eye tracking and surveys. We're working to try to get more of this stuff published. The important bit is to support it with data.
<discussion about retargeting annoyance/issues>
brandon: my personal annoyance was an ad for lightbulbs that followed me around. I spent some time at MSFT and there, if you were detected to be pregnant, you were put on a 9-month advertising sequence...then if you lose the child...you're in month and months of hell.
<agreement>
brandon: understanding the content of the ad is difficult from a technology perspective. Also, handling attribution.

Followup actions:
    - follow up wth Brendan about Feature policy API
    













