TAG Teleconference - 15 June 2016

Present: Dan , Peter, Travis, Alex, Yves, Hadley

Chair: Peter

Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2016/telecons/06-15-agenda.md

---
Peter : when you have resources in a document using relative URLS sand then you do a push to update the base URL, nothing updates... Puts document into an inconsistent state.
... came up because there are CSS issues to make it work right in some cases...
... I think it should be fixed.
... implementer push back.
Alex: Any data?
Peter: implementers want data that changing this would not break the web...
... thought I'd bring it to the TAG as it seems like an architectural issue.
[discussion on whether we need a finding]
Alex: No.
Travis: anyone objecting from Edge team?
Peter: don't recall. Mozilla and Google folks pushing back against it...
Dan: Blog post?
Hadley: what would we say?
Alex: this is a product question... we should be on the side of evidence and science. I'm concerned that if there's a blanket statement that it will "break the web" but not grounded in data then it's hard to have confidence in the assertion...
... I'd like to find a way to have a longer conversation with the folks who assert this.
Travis: some data that could be gathered...?
[discussion on how to proceed]
[TAG members to reach out individually to people involved]
Peter: I'd like to see some data as well.
Alex: we could add a TAG [issue] or put a bug in a bug tracker indicating we'd like to see that.
Hadley: we should make sure the conversation doesn't just focus on what is currently happening - what would we like the world to look like here?
Dan [what's the key arch principle?]
Peter: People are mucking with URLs and what a URL means - that's why it's an architectural issue. URLs should mean what we think they mean.
[agreed to loop back later]

---
Hadley: AOB topic - Dan & I were talking about whether the ...
[how can TAG encourage W3C to become more open?]
[discussion of the imporance of the WICG in opening up the W3C process]
Hadley: Data would be useful...
Travis: should we be spending some time reviewing proposals in the WICG?
[thumbs up from Alex, Dan]
Dan: where in the WICG process should we engage?
Travis: we need to figure that out.
Alex: many things might start and die in WICG without getting a TAG review..
... things that are successful in the design phase will naturaly end up here.
... 
Hadley: action to learn more about the WICG? Invite someone to give us a crash course?
Alex: I nominate Marcos or Chris Wilson - invite them to a call?
Dan: I'll email Marcos and Chris.
"How to navigate the WICG" (considering the TAG getting more involved in WICG)
Dan: Anything we want to talk with the AB about? 
[their f2f agenda here: https://www.w3.org/Member/Board/201606-ab-f2f-Paris.html]

[discussion on re-de-centralizing the web - is there a TAG issue or work item we can take from this?]

Dka: I’m working with the team in Google Stockholm to make arrangements for the developer meet-up.  Alex, you’re in the loop?

Alex: Yes.  The biggest room is probably 60 people total.  

Dka: Good. And I’ll set up registration and start to get the word out.

