WebRTC Details at:
    https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2016Apr/0005.html
    
Present: Alex, Travis, Peter, DKA, Mark, Hadley, Andrew
Scribe: Travis

Payments Review by Andrew
Issue: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/109
Andrew: pasted update on spec reivew; the WG opened a number of new issues. Generally speaking--it's GREAT! A few things were odd: the WG will be taking all that feedback on board. 
DKA: Why are so excited about this?
Andrew: Offered opportunity for payment systems to opearate on the same playing field. Multiple providers are possible, leading to good competition amongst many providers.
Alex: Re: Recurring payments--they seemed to put that out of scope (in Sapporo). They didn't want to because it required ongoing UI.
Andrew: Followed up on some specific issues. I think it would be a real shame if it wasn't part of this version. Ex: In UK, there are a variety of payment systems with different policies. Lots of juristiction independence which could be hard to standardize. My feedback in general was without recurring payments, it seems a bit lame.
DKA: Would support the subscription models for instance.
David: I think they would like to do recurring payments, but it's hard, and want to get something out the door.
Andrew: might be because they don't have someone representing that use-case in the WG. I'm very keen to get a publisher with a recurring payment on board.
Alex: Can you elaborate on the Iframe restriction note?
Andrew: Some smaller folks will use a client library (which will use an iframe to serve the payment form). It's probably getting less-common. I think there are still some valid iframe cases. I think this restriction would turn some developers off.
Alex: Ack. But seems the WG is making the value decision. Literally moving money around in an iframe opens up lots of potential abuse.
Andrew: Yeah, I don't feel that strongly about it. Maybe shouldn't have used the word 'severe'
Alex: Re: Shipping options. The merchant doesn't request the shipping address and that's it. Did I miss something?
Andrew: It's slightly confusing...the absence means the inability to ship, not to simply not provide a shipping address.
Alex: Issue 5 looks interesting. Timeouts feedback. What should they do instead? thougths?
Andrew: No specific suggestions. WG included to say "UA should notify the user of processing events"... not very specific about it. There are a few stages of transaction processing... if the UX has to guess could be less accurate. Seems like the spec should be handling those by providing event hooks, etc.
Andrew: I put all the feedback in one place (since we discussed in London on this very topic). I could have filed issues directly in their repos... but it's tradition!
Alex: I like this. Other thoughts?
DKA: Any Sec/Privacy concerns? UI spoofing concerns? Tricking the user? (Was going for a Gollum-esc statement)
Alex: Would they fill-out the privacy questionare? We should gently ensure they have taken a look.
Andrew: How they display the UI seems undefined. Would it be browser UI or App UI? Some scenarios there might create privacy concenrs 
Alex: I'm in favor of the ambiguity. If I hadn't chatted with Jake recently, I might be more concerned. I'm certainly in favor of not putting UI in specs. I think leaving it ambiguous helps boostrap the UI.
Andrew: Payment Method and API interface is much less well-defined.
David: that sort of issue was my original concerns. Was concerned this would bind browsers to payments systems in a closed way, and not leave open other systems, but I'm asuaged.
Andrew: Can't wait. Will help initially as a form auto-fill, but may lead to great things.
Peter: So, next steps? Close the issue?
Alex: Let's keep it around for a bit? Allow us to check-in with them later?

Andrew: We also had some activity on the mailing list.
Mnot: There's some context here...
Andrew: Not sure we need to respond.

DKA: Re: Fingerprinting. If you're able to ask the browser to get it's supported payment systems, this is somewhat sensitive. It might be a longer-term thing they are working on. Should add this to the conversation about privacy/security questionare.
Travis: Can the merchant enumerate the payment methods?
Andrew: No.

Topic: Web USB: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/108
David: Alex wanted to get someone on the call?
Alex: punt to next week?

Topic: Aria: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/107
DKA: In the middle of an email thread with the WG chairs to setup a joint call. Please re-assign to next week.
Peter: How about in two weeks?
DKA: SGTM.

Topic: FormData in XHR: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/87
Travis: Long and short is that's perfectly OK. I didn't find any issues. Basic object mapping.
Peter: happy to close this issue?
Travis: Unless anyone else has any issue? I don't think we need to keep it open.
[closed]

Topic: IndexedDB: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/84
Alex: punt for two weeks?
Peter: done.

Topic: Unblocking HTTPs: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/74
Mark: Chatted with Moz networking folks in Buenos Aires. There is still interest there, but not high-priority. I think we can gently continue to move this forward.
Mark: This is HSTS priming. Not Brad's proposal.
Peter: revisit?
Mark: How about in Stockholm? Will have networking and security folk there.

Topic: RequestIdleCallback: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/70
David: this was just to review feedback. I moved the milestone to next week.

Topic: Presentation API: 
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/61
Travis: when we talked about it in London the followup was to make sure our feedback got to the working group. I did that [link]. 
...I also opened up an HTML issue. [link]. I got good feedback from ANSI. I feel we've come full circle. I propose that we close it.
Peter: do we need to revist?
Travis: Ansi promised that they would get back to us but might not be for several months. Better to close it.
Peter: close-a-rino
Alex: We could label it as waiting for external feedback.
Peter: Set a milestone for us for Stockholm?
Travis: makes sense.
Peter: so mote it.

Topic: Performance Observer: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/18
Alex: Two weeks more please?

Peter: How do folks feel about our first WebRTC experience?
<mixed thoughts, feelings, and ruminations about bandwidth>
