W3C TAG Meeting: 25 May 2016

Attendees: Dan, Yves, Hadley, Peter, Travis, Tim, David, Andrew
Guests: Leonie Watson, Rich Schwerdtfeger, Michael Cooper

Topic: ARIA (Issue 107 https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/107)

dan: some background, we doggedly track issues. We try to view topics we see from an architectural perspective, as well as a "developer" perspective. TAG also tries to do developer outreach in the community. 
Tim: Some folks may be curious why we didn't do this as a joint work before with full WG (ARIA)? Could be that we just hadn't approached it the same way?
Dan: This is similar to our past WebRTC engagements...Leonie, would you mind expouding?
Leonie: I see folks struggle daily with these issues. Looking for solutions we can give to developers. For the TAG, we need to look at what ARIA can do--but this is only a small part of the larger conversation.
Rich: I'd like to address some of the comments about ARIA being hard to understand. I think it's an education issue. Ex: met with folks from IBM not too long ago. Folks are told to use ARIA, but they were never explained what they were doing. They didn't know what the browser was already doing for you. When authors write web apps, they are creating a software app. They don't know that much of the heavy lifting of building an accessible app is being done for them. The authors only do 20% of the work. Other feature of the web app is cross-platform. I still see this as an education issue. The industry dosn't explain it well-enough. 
Example 1: Aria provides info that the assistive technology needs. All the interfaces to the OS are handled by the browser.
I think Aria's outreach program can do a better job. (a group therein)
Dan: sounds like part of the issue, for sure. I'm not sure it's necessarily architectural... other comments from TAG folks or others.
Michael: What's the goal for the TAG? To better understand ARIA? To understand whether we want to track this issue? Is tracking already decided?
Dan: Want to focus where the TAG can provide the most benefit. How can be focus this issue for impact?
Rich: I'd appreciate your help with.. custom [rich] internet apps, have the most problems with supporting a keyboard. On mobile, keyboard isn't the best option--OK on desktop computers. What's the device-independent interaction model? How do we provide accessible access to the various inputs.
Leonie: Not quite where I was going... Is there something we can do natively in HTML that meets expectations and goes beyond APIs. We audit sites, and see a lot of use of Aria especially in widgets where authors expect the semantics to "do something" and are surprised when it doesn't.
Michael: What is the architectural question. Is there a problem with Aria? Is it more general? Still want to understand that question.
Dan: I see questions. I see questions everywhere! Is there feedback we can proide into the ARIA work plan that could be helpful to current work. Separate question, what problems that aria solves can be baked back into the [html] language?
Michael: Agree. Would like to see us frame this as "getting there from here" (don't throw out the baby with the bathwater).
Rich: Don't put ARIA in a box. Ex: put role=button on a span, and users expect some kind of functionality or doing that. This is what I think. We were told we can't drive browser behavior. I think that it should be this way--add the role, get the functionality. We must get browser vendors to agree to take this next step. HTML folks initially thought they could create elements for every role necessary, but this didn't happen. To help authors, we can take the semantics and other interaction models and make it easier for users.
David: If we were to make role=button do some of the things that <button> does that authors want to avoid, authors will want to avoid using role=button just like they avoid <buttton>. We would like to fix the features to make the parts more separable/overridable so that authors can pick the behaviors they want.
[agreement]
Michael C: complementary solutions - 
Travis: reminds me of the early days of CSS - desire for componentization - now CSS has evolved to powerful language to take any element & transform to any layout. Native controls & behaviours are an 
Leonie: touch is one of the biggest problems we have with ARIA.
Rich: Yes, addressing touch is in our charter for ARIA 2.0. Customization in general is part of the v.next.
Dan: How do we focus this into useful discussion? We'd like to have something to discuss at our f2f... Perhaps we can bring folks [virtually] into the room to air issues and tackle this issue - how do you have accessibility and extensibility / components?
Leonie: yes
Rich: yes, how do ensure an interaction model that is more flexible. Why do people build custom web components? 
Dan: Yes, want to learn how to structure that discussion. Returning to the feedback question... what can TAG do in the near-term for any in-progress ARIA discussions?
Rich: Well... we're ready to lock ARIA 1.1. HTML + SVG both are dependent on it.
Michael: might be hard to take feedback on 1.1 at the moment, but for 2.0, we could start to work with TAG for this--look at the issues (e.g., those in web components).
Rich: Should look at the web components issues, and looking at what direction we should go. TAG may be able to help with this. Michael and I may be able to brainstorm some high-level requirements...
Michael: agree. Sounds like somthing we could start later this summer.
Travis: thumbs up.
Andrew: Leonie's issue discusses some styling... wondering how this is realated to "default styles".
Leonie: folks seem to get styling (can make anything look like anything else), it's the behavior that trips people up (e.g., thinking that with role=button, you can interact with it using the space or enter key)
Michael: We support this with the ARIA Authoring Practices, which may need better marketing, but ultimately if you choose to do something that requires ARIA, you're choosing to have to do extra work over using native semantics
Andrew: seems like you're packaging up a lot of behaviors into a role. This makes me slightly nervous.
Leonie: keyboard shortcuts is another problematic area. They might be announced as available, but there's no guarantee. Browsers are hesitant to change UI/behavior in response to ARIA.
Hadley: broad comment (larger than ARIA): machine readability of content on the web--this is a whole other layer of readability (structured or unstructured). Wondering, or am interested in, how these are related to each other.
Dan: Logistics... 28-30 July is next TAG f2f. How do avoid stepping on toes. That is not our intention.
Rich: I think thinking about how to do things better is not toe-stepping in the least. I don't want to slow down any existing SVG or HTML work. We will have issue where if we try to do too much we can upset authors. From code-portability/device interaction, that's a big issue (e.g., keyboard users, but portable). If we all move on this together we'll both be going in the right direction.
Dan: thanks to all! This helps to focus our July meeting agenda. 
Travis: something about the landscape of roles...
Rich: what does TAG want for July (versus TPAC in september)?
Dan: do you have an ARIA 2.0 exploritory doc?
Michael: We don't have one, and not likely to have it ready by July. We are collecting it in a tracker.
Dan: maybe TAG could start a similar document? We could share and collaborate on it, or use it as a feeder document for your document.
Michael: I'd love an agenda for planning purposes.
Leonie: wondering if we should defer to TPAC, to give editor's time to focus on 1.1?
Michael: should try to have something to discuss in Stockholm...
Dan: We don't have our schedule fixed yet, so we can work out the best time for stakeholders.
Bye all!
