Present: Dan, David, Peter, Hadley

Regrets: Andrew

Some brief discussion on https://blog.lukaszolejnik.com/privacy-of-w3c-vibration-api/ - Lukasz Olejnik's pivacy analyses of different APIs.

Dan: how much should we be sticking our nose into this?
Hadley: is it being taken care of in the right place / at all? if not, we should get involved...
Peter: I agree I just don't know the answer...
... H

Hadley: when we get into suff that's crossing air gaps, that's when I worry.

David: the stuff that's doing that now is e.g. stuff that plays inaudible sounds to track users.
Peter: a bootloader that used ultrasound to download code...
Dan: This goes beyond unsanctioned tracking... Should it be behind a permission dialog? Or is there any point to an audio API which allows you to play sounds inaudible to the human ear? Should the spec say, "in order to protect user privacy/privacy (UK/US) the spec should prohibit that? Can we do that?

Hadley: yes we can... but there could be user appropriate use cases for it?

Dan: E.g chirp.io. Their thing is audio QR codes. It's audible, and distinctive -- so once you hear one, you know what it is.  They don't actually use ultrasound, but you ocud imagine something where they're using sound to move info from one place to another and the user wants it to happen.
Peter: there is something similar with Shazam and tv ads. And some visual QR codes are noticeably QR codes, but machine parsable into one.
Dan:  feels like it could be behind a user prompt.  But maybe this is already happening and users are being gamed into participating?  - but some of this is being addressed through more sophisticated approaches to permissions [e.g. permissions API].

Hadley: I have the same worries about forcing permissions in the absense of a set of use cases...  Not yet convinced where it would be intuitive ...  but all the use cases we've talked about should be behind permissions... Feels like we need more thorough research on the current use cases and where the future might go. It's always dangerous to make policy in a vacuum. 

Dan: maybe reach out to privacy interest group?

Hadley: sounds good...

[discussion about need for more privacy research .... and whether this kind of privacy research is actually happening in the privacy interest group... ]

Hadley: we need more research ... my concerns about the fingerprinting document - too theoretical - not tangible and hands-on. 

Peter: Looks like Lukasz is an IE on the device and sensors wg. Could we get him invovled in the privacy inetrest group as well?

DKA: Created issue 129 - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/129

-- 

Review window.visualViewport API 
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/128

Hadley: privacy concerns?
David: you have a layout viewport - but all mobile browsers let you oinch and zoom.. you could, with web tech disable that but have your own UI. Essentially a web page trying to construct somethign that looks like it has a viewport is doable but when you let the
browser do its own viewport stuff you don't have visibility. Exposing that sounds like a [good idea]. If the user touches a part of the page then that part of the page is visible - so that's a hint - but you don't have all the information. 
Hadley: should we ask if they want to go through privacy questionnaire?
Peter: I don't think it exposes anything new in terms of fingerprinting.
Peter: not adding surface area.
Peter: root viewport and its relation to the layout surface is a hack now - we talked about that in CSS - trying to recreate metaviewport in CSS... not grea. This eems like adding [more compexity] but I don't have another solution...
David: I'll try to write something up in the next week or 2.
Peter: I'd like to see this problem solved in the Houdini APIs....

Dan: - I will refer initiator of request to these minutes and start discussion - meanwhile we'll try to get some review comments back within a week.

--

Same Origin Policy?
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/127
 
https://mikewest.github.io/origin-policy/

Dan: we've needed a document defining same origin policy... now we have this...
David: what extent is this defining same origin policy vs. adding to it...
Peter: yeah I don;t think it defines it.
Hadley: Mark said he's working on another document ..  https://pad.w3ctag.org/p/2016-07-30
Dan: we need some clarification from Mark on that.




