TAG call 19 Oct 2016
Attending: Hadley, Dan, Peter, David, Andrew, Yves, Travis, Alex
Scribe: Hadley

Topic: TTML
[ https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/138 ]
dka: I got some interesting info back from BBC which was cc'ed between me, Olivier Theroux and Peter. I'm going to see if I can get them to make this info more public.  Basically, they're a big user of TTML. But i'm seeing tepid interest in TTML2. Their perspective is that they are big TTML users, but if I get this correctly, they're not participating directly in the TTML effort. I thought they were?  It's relevant to ask... is this importnat for us? Are users waiting for it?
Hadley: Nigel is BBC...? 
dka:  I will ask Nigel if I can put these comments into the TAG issue. Anyone else?
Alex: I looked at it again. It is just as crazy as it appears. No extensibility points, has its own styling... it's its own thing. I don't know how to evaluate it as a web platform feature.
dka: I feel the same way. this goes through W3C process, but may not be something we necessarily need to comment on.
Alex: I think if any of us were actively implementing it, we might have more comments.
Travis I ran it by our caption guy: he said there is a call every Tuesday which he doesn't attend
Hadley: my sense is that it's a distinct community.  BBC produces it for subtitles and runs occasional data R&D projects across it.
Travis: I get the sense from TPAC that we're bound to see more TV-related content hitting the web.  It may be that this is early for us but may be coming to us.
Alex: Do they have implementations? They're moving to CR
Peter: There was a test suite...
Andrew: what are the use cases that require interoperability with other web technologies?
Travis That's hard to say unless you want to open it to third parties, make them available on servers to scavenge
Hadley: That plays into our principles for data on the web. Unintentional reuse.
Andrew: I"m just curious why W3C is interested in standardising a content format that lives indpenedently from the web.
Alex: but you could reference it along side a video format, right?
Andrew: Anything other?
Peter: Karaoke?
Andrew: interesting
Alex: do we know what format it tends to use? 
Andrew: there is a proprietary format in use in Japan.

Topic: DOA
Hadley: That's still with me... will circulate text.  Anyone managed to get ahold of Tim on this?
Peter: not since TPAC.
dka: I'll talk to Amy.

Topic: Custom Paint API to CR
Issue 140
Alex, David and Travis... follow up from last week?
dka: to readdress next week then.


topic: moving from Slack to Riot?
peter: there's a new persistent-federated messaging platform called Matrix with a WebRTC back end.  Most stable client seems to be riot. I've set up a server for us.  Everthing slack is doing, but it's open standard-based, end-to-end encryption, built in video/audio conferencing.  I'd like to see us dogfood it, see if we can help it grow or help these standards be under our umbrella.
...Seems to scale pretty well. I set a twitter bridge, github bridge and IRC bridge on it.  
dka: is it using XMPP?
peter: no, it's own thing. All JSON over HTTP.  All very web friendly.


Alex: for next week... Webbluetooth API. Intent to ship. Would appreciate input.  - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/139
dka: I put it on the agenda. I think we need a privacy-focused review.  I'm nervous about unintended consequences. Like with geolocation... tricking users into giving more info than expected. 
Alex: and we have confirmation spam...
dka: well it led to the Permissions API. So i'm getting the same feeling about this. It feels like there is so many use cases... I just want to be extra careful.  Personally, I'm a big fan. 
...So it's up to us to review and have a substantive discussion next week. Should we invite someone to join us?
Alex: Jeff is likely to be out but someone else might be available. I'll find someone.
dka: Should we bring in Lukacz?
Hadley: Yeah, I've been hoping to meet him. 
dka: Let's contact him. x

Travis: We should also have someone reivew the Audio Output API (issue 132)
dka: Travis? I'll see if I can add anything as well.
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/132

Travis: I've been speaking with Mark Vickers from Comcast. He's working with the community of cable TV manufacturers... hbbtv issue. Groups who want a spec of the web platform suitable for manufacturer creating a TV. He've heard us say "thou shalt not subset the web". He's trying to help them not ship a version of webkit that goes out of date and creates pockets of UAs that can't brows the full web. 
...I wondered if it would be useful for us to write a finding for this community that says, "If you want to create an impelmentaion of the web platform whose intent is toallow your users to browse the web, the most important thing to consider is how to keep that impelemenation up to date.. The web itself is constantly changing.  
Alex: Also, you may allow thatâ€” and you should have an evergreen impelemnation of your OS too.  It's not okay in 2016 to create a system that's embedded-ish and doens't receive security updates. If it's internet-connected. 
...But also, if your'e doing this, you should allow competition in engines.
Travis: Interesting.  
...So I was thinking a) please don't subset, and b) make sure the browser can stay up to date and/or allow for competition.
dka: I've been thinking about this too in my day job.
...Let's could create a proto-finding and start hammering this out.
Alex: I think we need a finding in this area.
Hadley: Also if we're doing a finding for this specific situation, we should make sure there aren't further knock-on effects in any other areas. 

Alex: speaking of Japan.. I'd like us to reserve two days for spec review.
dka: I'm good with that. We can reserve the time and have a backlog of other things to fill it if need be.




(Hopeful) Topic: Audio Output API (WebRTC folks requested a review) https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/132
(Hopeful) Topic: Finding for keeping the web platform evergreen
