TAG Telecon 31-aug-2016

https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2016/telecons/08-31-agenda.md

Peter, Dan, Travis, David, Hadley

--

[Discussion of Tokyo f2f - big room available only evening 2 november, Enough? Not enough input now... Will discuss next time...]

Visual Viewport API - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/128

David: most pretty simple - one thing worth talking about, Alex might have an opinion... 
... pretty simple API. I filed a few issues I thought were straightforward.
... one thing felt weird was naming stuff... names on this API seemed odd ...

DKA: Looks like you have some feedback - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/128#issuecomment-243770776
ok to close issue?

David: I'm ok to close it unless people have strong views about the naming....
... seems like a set of things were you'll have to look it up ...

Travis: do they match similarly named properties on [events] - 

David: [yes some match element, some match others things]

Travis: Do any of them match position observer rectangles?

David: don't know

Travis:: don't think we should close it quite yet...

--

TPAC:
Dan: I will get back to Jeff and let him know we will give him a slide and we won't have a plenary session but will do something in the unconference

--

WakeLock API - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/126

Peter: they want feedback by today.

Travis: where we left it - I felt simpler was better, Alex wanted some more integration into permissions?

Alex: I feel either way is fine as long as they address the [...]

[alex writing somehting into the issue comment]

[travis to own conveyance]

--

Triage:

Travis: WebVR folks have asked for a review of latest document --- https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/106

Travis: i can own that...


--

Privacy of sensor & exotic APIs : https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/129

[discussion of this and ambient light sensor issue...]

Dan: should we invite Lukasz to our next call?

Hadley: I wouldn't mind a chance to talk to him...

Hadley: worthwhile but not all decisions should be based on [privacy implications]. They should be taken into account along with usability, functionality, etc (all the other things we usually think about)

--

New issues 130-133 [webrtc] added by DOM

Travis: I can take those...

Travis: I will do a perspectives review.

--

Ambient light - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/115 

Dan: should we add this to the agenda next week?

Hadley: looking at Lukasz's blog post - link - https://blog.lukaszolejnik.com/privacy-of-ambient-light-sensors/ ; tangible concerns and should be a worthwhile conversation...

--

Data on the web - 

Dan: I suggest you (hadley) open up an issue on this - and that we then reach out to TAG alumni (e.g. Jeni Tennison) to help formulate TAG comments... Maybe Jonathan Rees... others in TAG family who are more rooted in the data community 

Dan: I suggest we get substantive feedback back to the group...

Dan: I'll raise it to the data science community in GDS...

Hadley: issue opened: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/135

-- 

A11y object model - https://a11y-api.github.io/a11y-api/spec/

Dan: I think we need a separate issue on this. I'll raise it. 

Travis: I'm not convinced that the approach they're taking is the right one..  I think we have a spec review to do. We can start from that angle. Having Leonie & co weigh in may be helpful. A lot of the problems are because it has alignment problems with other parts of the web platform...

Dan: maybe in the feedback we can focus on the alignment problems ...

Travis: I'm trying to come up with an alternative - what is the extensible web version of this thing... allows us another way to interact with the accessibility platform...
... ongoing investigation...
... ultimately that could be rolled into feedback from the TAG...
... the scenarios they're trying to solve are real legitimate problems ... executaiton of how that's done is where I see gaps.

[travis to open up issue...]

#134

-- 

Pointer lock API - https://www.w3.org/TR/2016/PR-pointerlock-20160830/

Peter: a lot of similarity to the wake lock API - I know it's different but [maybed need to feed back to wake lock]
... each in isolation looks good but many ways to do the same thing...


