TAG Teleconference - 24 Feb 2016

Present: dbaron, travis, peter, andrew, hadley, Yves, Mark, Alex

ScribeNick: dbaron

Andrew: Wanted to get a little more feedback on email from 10 Feb; got reaction only from mnot.  Want a little more feedback for planning for event in London, presumably a meet the TAG event.
https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2016Feb/0009.html
Andrew: Currently run a Meet the TAG (MTT) event at every F2F, and EWS is more irregular.  Would be good to have something more reliable.  People didn't know where it was or how often it occurred.  Proposal was to make a good event we should probably run it once a year.
Travis:  What's the EWS frequency so far?  Every other meeting / twice a year?
Andrew: Seems generally every other, sometimes every third, once 2 in sequence.
Hadley: I thought that Dan had some rhyme and reason to that.  It's felt to me like whatever we call it... I joined TAG after EWM already out there -- felt like wherever we are, there's demand for an unconference-type event.  We've largely been limited by our own capacity to put on the event.  In a perfect world we'd do it every F2F, and put those F2Fs where people are.
Andrew: Agree.  Question is whether it's useful to have a larger, more set-piece event, once a year.  If you want larger, have to pick location carefully (restricts choice of locations) and a lot more work.  More pragmatic to do small event every time we meet and larger one once a year.
Hadley: sounds like good balance of ambition versus resources.  It's an open question -- probably what you're asking -- about how much we want to put into this.
scribenick: Hadley
Andrew: We should answer the basic question of what are we aiming for?  If that proves to be too ambitious, we could always scale back.
Hadley: It always feels to me like we can't possibly do enough outreach.
Travis: What's the difference between a Meet the TAG and an Extensible Web Summit?
Andrew: Meet the TAG is a simple, one-session Q&A event lasting a couple of hours. The Extensible Web Summit is a multisession event lasting between half a day and a day.#
Travis:  What you're saying makes sense to me. Being able to prepare and have good topics and gather the community to talk... might be pretty good.  I think we've roamed that meeting around, and we could more centrally locate it or continue to roam... But it would be easier on us to find a venue and dedicate a smaller amount of time for just a Meet the TAG.
Andrew:  I would agree that we could improve the Summit marketing if we gave more consistency to the location/venue.  Meet the TAG is more flexible, informal.
...I think that's worth doing at every face to face.
...Is the Extensible Web Summit better in one location or alternating betwen, say, SF and \London
scribenick:andrew
hadley: we talk to people in london and sf all the time
a lot of people will never take part, people don't travel
scribenick: hadley
<enter mnot, stage left>
mnot: Andrew, I think you're right; figuring out the goals for this summer is the high-order bit. It's been half road-show and half getting feedback from that audience. But if we had better idea of our goals and what audiences we're trying to reach -- that might drive our decisions.#
Andrew:  Okay; we've bottomed out timing -- let's move on to naming and come back.
...I don't like Extensible Web Summit, and I think there is consensus to rename.
...Proposed: Meet the TAG -> Opening TAG?
...Proposed: Extensible Web Summit: W3C TAG Developer Summit
...I don't think TAG has enough name recognition among Web Developers.
mnot:  Is this just a TAG effort, or are we working with working groups?
hadley: well, they are specialist by nature.
mnot: The Summit is always topics specific to working groups.
hadley: Yes, but we do get a variety of them.
mnot: Is this just a TAG thing, or is this bigger than us?
andrew: What would the theoretical name be?
mnot:  I don't know.  Think we need to nail down scope and goals and audience first.
?: W3C TAG Developer Summit is a bit of a mouthful
andrew: Yes -- was designed by committee.  Wanted to be clear this is a forum for developers, not a lecture to devs
Peter: WE've historically not made this a W3C event, because that involves branding, W3C Comms, more effort.  It's do-able, but we've avoided it thus far.
andrew: Ideology or bureaucracy?
peter: A bit of both. Anne was suggesting this being ad-hoc.
mnot: I feel like we may be too constrained around the baggage around the current event. I thought the Extensible Web Summit was put together to popularise that idea when it was new.  Mission accomplished?  
...Clean slate, what events do we want to hold?
...Just a comment on our overall approach here.
andrew:  Well... I can go away and come up with a bigger list of names to consider?
Peter: Sure
andrew:  opening TAG?
Hadley: I think it might be tough, linguistically.  But I've alwyas thought Meet the TAG is a bit pretentious.
Andrew:  Let me think about alternatives. 
...Re Format:  I think Meet the TAG's format works. 
Hadley: Yes -- as long as it isn't as long as Berlin
Andrew: Okay, so moderation is key.  And format for the Summit: I'd suggest we standardise that format on a series of lightning talks moving into moderated and minuted discussion sessions.#
Peter: Fine
Andrew:  And then... marketing.  We need dka.
mnot:  Can we 
ask people who attended summits in the past? Get some more data around these decisions?
andrew: I've done that informally, mostly with FT developers who've attended them.  I can give you the raw data?
mnot: We do have attendee lists, so we could do a quick survey.
andrew:  Let's coordinate on that.
...And re London... let's agree we'll do a Meet the TAG? With tight moderation and a set time limit
Hadley: Great

Topic: The Website
mnot: We discussed this on the last call; I put up the new site. No PRs on it. Do go in and do stuff, if you want. 
...Had feedback from TAG and not-TAG types that people like it more than the old one.  
...Did notice the menus don't work without javascript in TOR browser. Which made me a little sad.

Topic: TV control
mnot:  This came up, is under review now.  Reading it quickly -- it's a replay of the discussion around the automotive API.  Defining new javascript APIs for things outside the browser.
Travis: Is this like remote control interfaces?
mnot: Electronic program guides, parental controls, etc.  All things an old-school web guy like me would make available as network resources.
Hadley and Andrew: +1
mnot:  It's awkward; we now have multiple community groups being drawn into us, heading in this direction...
andrew: seems pointless to ship native code to a billion users that you will only run on a miniscule fraction of those because the code doesn't run on their hardware.  You're just bloating the browser.
travis:  Well, in automotive, they did mention that the audience would only be in the car. There's no intention for a desktop browser to implement the automotive API; it's just out of scope.
dbaron:  I worry about the security model. Some of these APIs, there are specific actions in the browser with implications for permissions.  Eg geolocation, there's a permissions prompt as part of the browser.  How does the permissions stuff work in this other model?
...Some of those other motdels are more sublte.  You might get implicit permission if the user has added it to a home screen or somehow marked it as important...
mnot: I think you'd need a permissions model for network resources.  Esp access to the credentials to access those resources.
...And I don't know if we should stop them, tell them to proceed as non-JS APIs... Charter review coming up... Meating architectural issue under this.
...Do we want to weigh in?
...Charter review due 18 March.
...I think we should put this on the agenda for our next f2f.
Hadley and Peter: AGreed.
Hadley:  What's the best way for us to approach this?  Issue a finding, or speak to the CG directly as we did with the automotive group?  Or both?
mnot:  We could ping the team and tell them we'll be discussing this at our F2F. And talk directly to the CG, to see where they are, tell them our thoughts. Considering the timing, that should do it.
hadley: it feels like both an architectural issue and something that happens without leadership, in a vacuum.
mnot: And if anyone provides that leadership, it should be the TAG. 
...And it might be that we look at their proposals deeply and agree with them.
peter: I'm working on something to solve this dichotomy of network resources vs JS APIs.  Hope to have something to show at the F2F. Wrote to mnot on it too.

Topic: Web Background Sync
mnot: we discussed at Melbourne F2F, gave them feedback. They created an explainer doc, and are missing a few bits of our feedback (have as open issues) but that's to be expected right now.
...We could close the issue... How important is it to us that our feedback is incorporated? Do we want to keep tracking these issues with them?
...Historically, when someone agrees with us, we usually close the issue.
...We'll get notifications when the close the issue.  I think that's good enough.
Peter: Close it then.

Topic: Notifications API
slightlylate: There are a few open things here. 
...1) Notification icons generally support a single format icon.  We've seen with the manifest spec that one size doesn't fit all... We might suggest they provide a more open and accommodating variant.
...This is both the icon for a notification option and to the new actions section, which allows you to create buttons for icons.
...Lots of the action inside the notification UI is TBD... Re properties, there is title, body, which is a string, sound and icon, whether it has an interaction in some cases.... it's not much.
...It allows the browser to create whatever UI is approprate locally. But many systems support a broader set of notifications types.  And there are a different set of APIs being proposed for media control, which in some cases come through the Notifications API.  Seems fine.
...The example code in the spec is poorly constructed and there isn't enough.
...There needs to be an explainer doc.
...Common feedback for us, overall.
...Big thing for us: how the legacy notification API integrates with the persistence and not-persistence APIs. 
...Permissions API isn't in this document.  It would be nice if this spec made it clear how to use this stuff together.
...Overall, I'd like to see the service worker variant layered on top of the constructor variant.
...The constructor variant doesn't work everywhere because there is a lifetime issue.
...tl;dr: I don't have any problems with the API right now, other than the obvious ones that come from the legacy API.
...This is defining a new rendering surface in the browser. Doesn't use HTML. They tried that, but implementers found it hard to work with. (Which is the document? Which is the foreground? etc.) 
....But now we're growing a new UI language inside the notification constructor... perhaps we should keep an eye on it.
Peter: What next?
slightlylate: I'll write something up and send it to them this week.
Peter: Any other comments?
group: Nope
Peter: If you have it done for our next telecon, we can have a quick look at it and send it over?
slightlylate: sure

Topic: Stockholm F2F arrangements
slightlylate:  We will have office space for Thurs and Fri. Still working on Sat.  Need to know list of names ASAP.  Not sure yet about special guests... working on it.
...Google office in Stockholm.  Catering shouldn't be a problem.
mnot: we should have Herald do an update for us on WebRTC?
peter: sure. Will you ask him?
mnot: sure.
andrew:  Are we set on those dates?  Book travel?
mnot and travis: hope so -- already booked
peter: Alex, can you make an Arrangements page in Github repo?
slightlylate: sure

andrew: Any further thoughts re q3 f2f in tokyo?
mnot: I thought that was SF?
andrew: Nikkei are happy to host.
mnot: Tokyo in Jan? Okaido...?


 LavaLamp API 1.0 :-)   
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
