
Present: Hadley, Dan, Peter, Tim, Travis, David, Yves

Scribe: Hadley
    
    
Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2016/telecons/05-04-agenda.md

*Call Agenda
	* Indexed DB - Alex
	* Cross-spec device identification - Travis
	* Review WAPA proposal - Alex
	* CSP - Mark
	* Performance Observer - Alex
	* Proposal for TAG to play a role in obseleting specs - Dan

Topic: Proposal for TAG to play a role in obseleting specs - Dan

dka: The Process CG has been talking about putting something into the process re obsoleting recommendations.  
...When somebody requests that a specification be obsoleted AND the working group that produced that spec is no longer in operation.
...Conversation thread: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-w3process/2016May/0005.html
...The idea is that this would rarely happen. 
...One question from me to David Singer (who started this discussion with us), which basically means the TAG takes on a formal role it doesn't have currently:  I'm not sure the TAG wants to be hte obsolescence committee.  And in the absence of an authority like the WG who produced the spec...
...This isn't talking about rescinding a spec -- it continues to be available under W3C license agreements.  It's more like deprecating.

TimBL: When you do this, there are newer things that  you should be pointed to.  The edited rec will get a pointer to those things. One would expect a description of how its obsolete and what to do instead.

dka: Yes.
...The issue before the TAG: how do we feel about this?  I'm fairly positive about it, but only because I think it will be a rare thing.  And I think it puts the TAG in the role of technical authority of last resort. 
...Feels to me that the primary techincal authority should be the wg that produced it. So we would be tech authority of last resort.

timbl: presumably there is more process to it.  It seems logical to me that, as you get wide review for creating something, you should get wide review for destroying it as well.  You should ask the people who created it, and the people who are still using it.

dka: Yes, I think that's in the proposal that the Process CG have come up with. "> The TAG MUST announce its intent to consider the Request to Obsolete the Recommendation [[to other W3C groups]] and to the public and SHOULD consult with any pertinent working groups, especially the Working Group that developed the Recommendation if it exists, or any obvious successor WG. The TAG MUST make the decision to proceed, by formal decision of the TAG."

timbl: Well, first it should be reviewed by everyone who has dependencies on it.  If it mentions HTTP, then the HTTP wg.  People whose specs may have referenced it.  Hopefully soon we'll have a big database of all the recommendation and dependency links.  So if you remove a recommendastions, it should automatically delete any other normative references to it.

travis: Is that the goal, to have a spec vanish from the will and minds of the community?

timbl:  we need to clear clutter, and get rid of bad advice.  But if someone is using it, there will be lots of other references from national standards and other bits of code. Depends on what the spec is; you'll have to do your due diligence.  It will be interesting to have a registry of specs.

travis:  similar to how Google and other companies have a Use Counter that counts usage.  In this case, we could be tracking how useful a spec still is.

timbl:  If that usage counter counts recurrences of an HMTL element... There are things like keygen, which we've removed partly because Google didn't find much use on the open internet.
...I'm very sceptical about the idea of removing things because Google doesn't find very many occurrences of it on the open web, as that sort of attitude can end up deleting things which are important though only used say in intranets



dka: PICS has been mentioned, as an example of a spec. 
...I think the question of whether or not there should be an obsoleting process is one thing. Separate: if so, should the TAG be involved in it?

plinss:  I have mixed feelings.

dbaron:  Looks like the process they're designing will never obsolete anything. It's too hard.  You need everyone to agree.

Hadley: Well, we do go for concensus on everything else we do.

travis: I'm thinking of the Device API group that shelved a lot of what they were working on, and now it's coming back in the Sensor API. 

timbl: well, obsoleting is different to putting it on the shelf. 

travis:  the burden sounds small enough that it doesn't make much of a difference if we take on that responsibility, right?

dka:  It feels to me like, in the version of this process that David S sent, it still comes to the TAG even if there is an existing wg responsible for that spec. If Device APIs, for example, were to obsolete a lot of their work, then they should be the authority that proposes that to the AC.  The AC should then have a poll, and that should be it.  Seems like we should only get involved if there is a dispute, or some large community of people disagree with the existing wg, or there isn't a wg at all... That was my initial thought.  It only makes sense if there's no working group, as a thing of last resort.

Hadley: That makes sense to me too - I wonder about us discovering half way thoygh that there is a small consituency which ...
isn't theer another technical aiuthority which could do this?   But UI wouldn't want the TAG to be too far out of the loop

dka:  Since David made the request to us, there has been more discussion on their mailing list. So I don't want to reply formally, but I can at least update him on this discussion.  I'll write that up.

Topic:  Cross-spec device identification - Travis
  (issue 64)  
 https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/64
    
  Travis:  I have started writing up some text that I attempted to publish to the repo, but I'll have to do it manually.  
  ...My thoughts:
        
        
<h2 id="device-apis">Device APIs</h2>

It is increasingly common to see new APIs developed in the web platform for interacting with 
devices. For example, authors wish to be able to use the web to connect with their 
<a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/mediacapture-streams/">microphones and cameras</a>, 
<a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/generic-sensor/">generic sensors</a> (such as gyroscope and 
accelerometer),
<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/web-bluetooth/">Bluetooth</a> and 
<a href="https://wicg.github.io/webusb/">USB</a>-connected peripherals,
<a href="https://www.w3.org/community/autowebplatform/">automobiles</a>, toothbrush, etc. This 
section contains principles for consideration when designing APIs for devices.

<h3 id="unique-ids">Use care when exposing unique identifiers</h3>

Exposing unique identifiers for a specific device increases the fingerprinting surface of a user
agent conversely reducing the user's privacy. Think carefully about whether it is really necessary
to expose the unique identifier at all. Please read the TAG's finding on
<a href="http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/unsanctioned-tracking/">unsanctioned tracking</a> for 
additional details. Despite this general concern, it may be very useful or necessary to expose a 
device's unique identifier to the web platform. The following guidelines will help ensure this is 
done in a consistent and privacy-friendly way: 

 : Limit identifiable information in the id
 :: As much as possible, device ids exposed to the web platform should not contain identifiable 
     information such as branding, make and model numbers, etc. In many cases using a randomized
     number or unique id can randomized unique identier,, •Can IDs be recycled among different types of hardware?"  •what should be the available entropy in the pool?

 : Hide sensitive ids behind a user permission
 :: 
 
 : Tie ids to the same-origin model
 :: 
 
 : Ids should be stable within a session
 ::  *ask for an ID and get the same device, within the bounds of a session.

 : Persistable when necessary
 :: complex device selection may prefer that author code persists an id for use in a later session
     •store a device ID so that the application don't have to ask for a device to be selected time and time again.
     
 : Keep the user in control
 :: •should be reset even for the same origin when cookies are reset.
</thoughts>

Travis:  this is a fourth section to the Design Principles paper.  I anticipated we'll have more to say about devices, so I created a new section on it.  Focus: device identifiers.
...I haven't finished, but the main points are here. When you have a device for which you want to expose identifiers, you should be careful, consider unsactioned tracking, limit the identifying info in the ID, hide sensitive IDs behind the permissions (if needed at all), hide the IDs within the origin, and the same ID can't be reused across origins.  So once you acquire it on Facebook, for example, you wouldn't want to use the same ID to access that device on LinkedIn.
...Finally, ensure the user is in control, to do a reset (clear cached device info, or clear that previously stored info out).
...My plan is to clean this up a bit, publish it up to the repo and then continue to take issues, comments etc.
...I think this will close the issue.

dbaron: What's behind the concern re tying IDs to the same origin model? Tracking?

Travis:  Yes.  This originally came up in the  Media Capture and Streams spec, where they wanted to, after you've negotiated the camera/mic you want to use, to store that ID in local storage to reuse later.  
...They wanted that to function, so randomised IDs for every session wouldn't work.  But they also didn't want a consistent ID across the web, because that could be used to fingerprint you.

dbaron: But sites can still do that, it's just harder.

travis: That's right. 

dbaron: I'm not entirely sure how that fits with the conclusions with the unsanctioned tracking finding that we can't stop it from a technical perspective

travis: my link to that finding is higher up, asking them "do you really want to expose it at all?  If so, here are some initial thoughts."

dka:  I think the point about flushing out those IDs to reset -- is pretty important. 

travis:  So move it higher up in the list?

dka:  Re private browsing modes... it also feels like it belongs in that context too.  Not sure how to square that with the different modes per browser.

travis:  Mark's document touches on that.  This could be a data point for inclusion in his document.

dbaron:  It feels like the list of things reset when the user clears cookies, etc, shoudl all be under consideration for private browsing mode.

dka:  agreed.
... This is a list that keeps growing, as we add more things to the web.  Not necessarily a bad thing,

hadley: but worth keeping an eye on.

dka:  David's point about: can malicious unsanctioned tracker correlate these IDs anyway, even if you have two different origins operating on the same web cam, or wearable or something... 

travis:  In our conversation with Tobie, re the generic sensor APIs, there is another case where all the user agents end up exposing all these interfaces for sensors, and Tobie's conclusion was that it doesn't even make sense to have these various checks (does the UA support the API, does the device the UA is on support the sensor, does the permission granted to use the sensor) -- his result was to wrap it all in a tri-catch and go for it.  And have a good fall-back experience when that fails. 
...So, is this more tracking state that can be correlated out of band or on the server side... Yes, device IDs could be done that way.  Though if they are randomised in a safe way, the chance of that correlation meaning something is small

Hadley:  I think that fits with our unsanctioned tracking finding. The more we inform users and equip them with tools to protect themselves -- it won't be perfect but it will be better.

travis:  This will help encourage features being privacy-preserving as much as possible.

dka:  So what happens once this is published?  

travis:  It's been picked up a few times

dka: It would be noticed more if we could publish it as a separate finding.

travis: This was Domenic's doc initially, and I don't know what the initial plan was for it.

dka:  Well, just because we publish it as a finding doesn't mean it can't also be a note or some other form.  But if we have something self-contained that is done, makes sense, and we've socialised it with relevant communities, then it makes sense to publish it as a finding.

plinss:  I think this fits with the Design Principles, maybe publish as a finding... The original issue is that we have different ways of identifying devices in different specs.  We might want a single spec that covers all of that.  Shouldn't I be able to address my printer the same way across the web regardless of connection protocol (USB, bluetooth, wifi)?

hadley: wouldn't that increase the potential for fingerprinting?

plinss: Yes, possibly.
...Anyway, I agree tht a finding or a note is appropriate. But still wondering about a spec.

timbl: I think the crypto people would be interested.  In practice... this is interesting for a printer. It sounds like a useful idea, but I am a bit worried about the privacy implications. If there is a physical name for it, I want to be able to insist on a new way to connect to it.

travis:  The network service discovery working draft...  sounds related to this. http://www.w3.org/TR/discovery-api/ 

dka:  Looks like that hasn't been worked on in 2 years. Worth asking if it's still ongoing work.

travis: we're also reviewing web bluetooth and web usb, which both have open-ended connect-to-device processes in their specs.  Whether there ends up being one identify-device spec to rule them all... questionable.

dka:  So should we send these thoughts to those groups and Tobie, to get their read on it?  I agree, it feels like -- if we want to be influential on this -- then we need to get going quickly.  WebBluetooth is already implemented in a few browsers, and WebUSB is implemented under a flag in Chrome.  So, we need to get the word out.

Travis: yeah. I'd be happy to reach out to those folks and have them do a review. Would make me feel more comfortable about this.

topic: AOB

dka:  Alex says he will take a look at his issues on the agenda and will feed back offline.
...I've got an event happening next week in London on Web Progressions.

dbaron: I'll be at the CSS meeting next week.  Suspect Peter will too.

Plinss: Yep.





