TAG Teleconf 12 october

Peter Travis Andrew David Dan Alex

Chair: Peter
Scribe: Dan

Minutes 

*ARIA state of affairs*

minutes from TPAC session: https://www.w3.org/2016/09/23-aria-irc 

Peter: no news ...

Travis: some pushes to be more conservative in the future of ARIA rather than novel feature set like accessibility object model...
...AOM is more radical approach that solves some sueases but there was a push [at the aria meeting] to have its charter focus on
...refining the existig propeties.... ves trying to bite off something larger. [what i heard]

[some discussion on where AOM is happening...  - ]

Dan: How can the TAG help

Travis: we could keep checking in on them - get periodic checkpoints of the incubation status. THat could help facilitate a transition to a working group...

Dan: Where is it? In WICG? [pending link]

AOM contributed to WICG - and subject it to the licensing agreement. 
https://discourse.wicg.io/t/contributing-the-accessibility-object-model-specification/1702

*TTML* https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/138

Travis: there was a session at TPAC about captioning - i went to some of that - do we know what that was about and how it might relate? In the room we had Apple, Mozilla, Google, MS... There was a discussion about how to have web author created captions hooked up to browsers' captioning systems. It sounded like a scenario that hadn't been addressed by TTML or WebVTT yet - those are solutions that aim to be end-to-end. This discussion was about third party tools that can provide captioning informaiton.  Could improve accessibility in general.
https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC2016/SessionIdeas#Subtitle_format_support_of_TextTrack_and_TextTrackCue_interfaces
feel like there hasn't been a big groundswell of interest in continuing to develop on the captioning side of thing - not a lot of content has demanded it. But if any third party tool could provide captioning info that could open it up to extensibility.

Peter: should we be looking at this? do we have expertise?

Alex: I took a look at TTML 2 nine months ago. And ... i had a bunch of questions.  Very messy. Support question - there wasn't appetite from everyone for one format. 

Andrew: What about SRT? Same use case? If I load a subtitle file it has a .SRT extension.

Alex: there may be some overlap.

Peter: there's a webSRT.

David: a bunch of browser makers didn't want to implement ttml - but there are lots of orgs like BBC that have libraries of stuff in TTML. Some profiles of TTML have been used widely in other industries.

Travis: 

Alex: imagine these 2 formats associated with a media stream and you'd like to render these. what's necessary for you to be able to implement this in user space.

Travis: that was the topic of conversaiton at the breakout session - how to make it more extensible...

Alex: the subset of CSS  - the positioning stuff that TTML uses - talking abotu TVs and their general subsetting of the web platforn... TTML has other properties that have been re-implemented in XML...

Travis: the disccusion on the break out - you have th poll continuously the time value to know when to inject caption... 

Alex: What's the latency?

Travis ? 10s of miliseconds?

Peter: [normal broadcast TV latency is normally seconds]

Alex: Could we end the format ware by figuring out a way to have the system call you back at particularl mark moments on a media track? request call-back on a media track at particular time-mark?

Travis: yep.

Alex: Was that requested for audio and video tracks?

Travis: I don't know if it was requested in the context of audio tracks...

Alex: im wondering --- we'd like to help them. 

David: In TTML1 the styling attribute vocab was smaller and more aligned with CSS... for this they've added a lot of stuff.

Peter: I would like to understand what are they trying to solve, whya re they doing this? 

[discussion of who actually is participating in this spec - would it benefit us to hear from e.g. BBC?][

[is it browser tech?]

*Houdini wants to take custome paint API to CR*
https://drafts.css-houdini.org/css-paint-api/

Peter: Any objections?

Travis: first of the Houdini specs to get this far?

Peter: Yes.

Alex: Explainer?

Peter: https://drafts.css-houdini.org/css-paint-api/EXPLAINER

Alex: Image placeholder thing is interesting. I don't understand... first time it's [...] and future draws to that image... 

*f2f planing*

Dan: presents the developer event : http://frontend.connpass.com/event/42323/

*webvr*

Travis: WebVR has requested review from the TAG. I explained it wasn't a formal requirement. https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/106
... will be working on this.

Dan: also webvr workshop: https://www.w3.org/2016/06/vr-workshop/

Peter: Ajourned.
