*# W3C TAG Minutes: Stockholm 2016-07-30
Agenda:  https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2016/07-stockholm/agenda.md 
Present: Peter, Dan, Travis, Yves, Hadley, David, Alex, Andrew, Mark (afternoon only)
Scribe: Travis (morning), David (afternoon)
https://pad.w3ctag.org/p/2016-07-30
*Topic: Long Awaited Spec Reviews!

*Browser Fingerprinting Document (38)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/38
Reviewing Nick's latest comments...
alex: we wrote unsactioned tracking in response.
dka: Nick would like us to close the issue on his repo. He also changed the title in response to Hadley comment. The best practices seem reasonable.
alex: Active, Passive, Cookie-like seem confusing (overlaping).
david: not sure cookie-like is something I'd call fingerprinting...
alex: the cookie-like seems to include super-cookies, which we distain and don't want in the platform.
[discussion of the status of privacy questionaire]
alex: we expect the best practices part to be used by folks... but they don't seem actionable. (e.g., best practice #1). It's phrasing is useful, but doesn't provide guideance about whether to include or not. Some engineer wanting to add something useful might be detered after reading these best practices (or vice versa: their feature wouldn't meaningfully add fingerprinting surface). Would be nice to have an example of how a feature migtht be designed with this questionaire in mind.
dka: I don't want to throw more stop-energy at this...
alex: agree.
[struggle with definition of "cookie-like"...]
alex: it's not clear to me that the use of cookies implies identifiation (just like use of local-storage does not imply storing identification). If I had a spec review with a Google engineer... [will try to capture the dialog I would have with hypothetical engineer and relay that to Nick].
hadley: I feel Nick's done a lot better job at describing the problem area, etc., but less so on the specific guidelines. I feel it's more of a discussion document than an action-plan.

*Presentation API Request for Feedback (61)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/61
Looks like our feedback has been taken into the spec, with additional feedback applied to Mark's document. This has come full-circle, so without any futher concerns, I'd like to close this issue.
All: sounds good.

*Review WAPA (Accessibility) proposal (63)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/63
Our review of WAPA (specifically) was done yesterday. Should we close this?
dan: We should probably keep this (or a related issue) around so that we can keep track of the various proposals that are being developed?
travis: OK. change the title?
dan: done.

*Cross-spec device identification & association (64)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/64
alex: problem is we have multiple devices showing up represented in two places in the platform. How do we represent them in a privacy-preserving way.
web midi/ web audio
web bluetooth/media device info
peter: like a printer that has multiple interfaces.
travis: seems like if you can correlate devices within a same-origin restriction in a single "session" (instance)? is OK wrt privacy. But allowing these to be correlated across devices or sessions seems bad.
alex: wondering what clearning your browser data does to these things? One option is things get cleared. So, what's the appropriate scope of the cross-device identifier?
hadley: do we have clear use-cases?
alex: web bluetooth is definately one.
[looking at mediadevices enum in getusermedia]
currently noted in the spec:
    * appears that a permission prompt can be used to extend the device id.
alex: guideance seems good (in the spec). Should there be some super-class that holds the device id? Is device id enough? 
travis: is there two device ids? One for persistent one for temporary.
hadley: network services discovery API also uses device id.
travis: wondering if there needs to be an interface for converting between a temporary and persistent id.
hadley: also screen capture api, webRTC and audio output devices API.
alex: hadley ftw! In screen capture, they appear to have designed around the problem.
alex: I like that there's a single thing we can recommend that all specs can use.
Some whiteboarding...
  interface IdentifiableDevice { DOMString deviceId; DOMString? uniformDeviceId; DOMString uniformFromLocal(DOMString); }
  permission.requset("devicePersistence");
  permission.query("devicePersistence");
travis: I can put some more thought into this.

*Motion path spec (66)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/66
plinss: this has been subsumed into polar positioning/ round displays. 
david: is poorly named. the spec defines properties that IF ANIMATED actually produce motion. But the properties themselves don't deal with motion.
travis: so do we need to keep this issue around?
[all] the properties are in good hands in CSS for now.

*requestIdleCallback (70)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/70
david: there was one issue I had wanted to write-up about the event loop. Spec has a lot of algorithm things. The combination of the contraints may produce some weird edge cases. I'm OK closing.
alex: were your other issues address in the spec?
david: thinking the processing model seems to be a little over-defined
david: with a global scheduler (which takes background threads, workers, etc., into account, you may want to *not* run the idle callbacks.
alex: they appear to have addressed most of the issues. Can close and open a new one?

*Potential for coordination about task scheduling (72)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/72
[whiteboard activity where we try to enumerate the various tasks], pasted into issue.
[general agreement that the TAG needs to produce a document on this, possibly a REC track]

== LUNCH ==

*Write up the Secure Stop issue for ddorwin (73)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/73
https://github.com/w3c/encrypted-media/issues/85
alex: I think Mark has misconstrued our feedback.
alex: This isn't settled.
Travis: Mark's first reply said he felt TAG wasn't correctly informed, and attempted to clarify.
alex: We see a requrement that this behavior work most of the time with the acknowledgement that it won't work all of the time.
Travis: There were some good findings.  At least agreement that there's not a 100% requirement.  Clarified that one of the problems was being required to do synchronous work when shutting down, and not knowing (a) definition of shutting down and being a problem of adding more synchronous work to an implementation, and appears to be no visible-to-applcation side effects of this process.   This means you could do it in a separate process that woke up after browser died and did work on your behalf.  Nothing you'd notice until you go to the page a second time.  They're writing a timestamp that says the last time the secure content was accessed.  So you're not blocked from strteaming new content b/c they think you're still streaming content.  Given not 100% reliability, and no side effects, I didn't see a super-strong concern.  Boiled down to a sendBeacon call.  Don't know if it's going to complete.
Alex: As long as it's isomorphic to sendBeacon and we're not adding extra constraints on shutdown, that's ok.  Doesn't put us in position of having to consider things we don't know how to do.
Travis: Then mark replied with one clarification, but David hasn't replied further.
Alex: If we note in our bug there's currently a simmering consensus that behavior no more restrictive than <a ping> and sendBeacon, then we can be done.
Dan: so we can close this issue?
Hadley: why can't they...?
Alex: Separate system in the CDM which treats the user as hostile.  A behavior in some CDMs is an extra pass at shutdown that <interruption>.
Hadley: ...?
Alex: What we learned trying to understand the issue is that what some people want to do to ensure that accounts aren't being used from many locations in ways that the service doesn't anticipate, is to use logging on shutdown.
Alex: The open question -- got no response -- what is the limit?  If you have to do behavioral monitoring of your users, what's the amount of information you need to get information you're obligated to expose.  Seems the answer is "as much as possible".
Peter: On other sites, things mediated on server.
Alex: Other way to do this is to do timed grants for media.  Already supported in EME.  What this introduces, which is objectionable to folks who want secure stop / persistent usage record.  Because they're using encrypted key-managed streams, they view single server as single point of failure.  They see the shutdown record logging as more resilient, since more resilient on their end -- can still get content from edge node, without worried about transient failure on central key server.  Can see that the logging solution is more robust, though could extend the length of the grant if issue is reliability.
Peter: If this system falls down because a client failed to say it's done.
Alex: The thing is it doesn't stop playing in the middle of a movie, so UX is better.
Alex: Triangulating limits of a particular business choice is difficult.  Drive to get in the platform has come from specific products, but difficult to have discussion...
Dan: close it?
Travis: doing so

*Unblocking the HTTPS Transitions (74)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/74
David: Is there anything new here
Hadley & Andrew: what's the issue
Mark: Trying to ease the reasons that make it hard to move from http to https.  Often hardest to reengineer content.  We have Upgrade-Insecure-Requests to help.  Brad identified issues (and Tim sympathized) issues with referential cycles between sites.  Brad came up with proposal to introduce a new state to the browser security model that allowed soft-upgrade to https.  Complex.  At same time, others came up with alternative models.  Richard Barnes came up with alternative to do many of the same things but in a simpler way.  HSTS priming.  HSTS and mixed content are checked.  If site has HSTS, auto-upgrades http to https.  But mixed content check is done before HSTS upgrade happens.  Proposal is to flip ordering, and also do priming request if you see potentially mixed content.
?: With Upgrade-Insecure-Requests, attempts to upgrade, but loads fail if they can't upgrade, and parent page stays secure (not mixed).
Mark: my impression is that Richard's proposal is getting upper hand, though don't know if it meets Tim's requirements.
Dan: Can we close this off and wait for a concrete thing?
Mark: Assign it to Tim and have him review HSTS priming?
Dan: Could we close the issue?
Dan: What's status of HSTS priming document?
Mark: still a proposal.
Mark: Can ping Mike and Richard and ask for current status.

*"With Credentials" flag possibly inconsistent with web architecture (76)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/76
Dan: Tim's issue, so let's move on.

*Security Questionnaire (77)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/77
Mark: Had a quick chat with Mike West about this.  If recall correctly, think we both had some thoughts about trying to simplify it.
Mark: Alyssa Cooper had presentation to HRPC about privacy questionnare.  https://www.ietf.org/proceedings/96/slides/slides-96-hrpc-2.pdf  Probably equally interesting in light of security and privacy questionnaire.  Especially advice in last slide.
Mark: I can take an action to ping mike and have a more structured conversation and see where he wants to take it.  Probably good to start talking to groups about it more at TPAC too.
Dan: Payment WG took it seriously, as the TAG security & privacy self-review.  One issue I recently raised (Issue #125).  This is their feedback at https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/125 .
Mark: I think I will need to read this feedback.  
Mark: We claim it's a self-review questionnaire.  Does that imply we need to review their review?  Or just answer any questions they have?
Dan: I don't think we should review all responses, but I think looking at their response could be useful in analyzing the document.
Mark: I'll paste link from #125 into issue #77 for consideration when we talk about the document, and will close issue 125.

*IndexedDB getAll(), openKeyCursor() and objectStoreNames (84)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/84
Travis: Ship has sailed.
Alex: yes, close it

*Storage persistence (85)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/85
Dan: says it's addressed, looks lke we can close

*Geofencing FPWD (89)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/89
Mark: says no progress
Alex, Hadley: Still true that no progress
?: Kick it down the road
Alex: to Tokyo

*Bluetooth API Security Model (90)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/90
Hadley: we discussed yesterday?
?: Somewhat USB, and somewhat bluetooth.
Alex: 2 sides of bluetooth, first is scanning, other half is consent to have a conversation.  Data in first draft is only GATT, a BTLE data protocol.  (Bluetooth 2 is much more expansive.)  More secure default.
Travis: There's a same-origin policy embedded in that?
Alex: That was one design option, but not how it's currently specced.
Alex: Users are presented with a chooser if the site requests to talk to bluetooth devices.  Only available from toplevel frames.
Alex: And in first pass scanning is not enabled.  Only chooser based conversation about site to device.  Reconnection is coming but not there yet.
Travis: so boils down to been authorized by user.  Most damage you can do is sending relatively constrained data to the bluetooth device, a la WebMIDI.
Alex: Yes, although a bit more expensive than WebMIDI.
Peter: ... already been paired.
Alex: If you look at implementation status link https://github.com/WebBluetoothCG/web-bluetooth/blob/gh-pages/implementation-status.md you'll see what's implemented in Chrome now.
Hadley: Section 5.1, sharing cache between multiple origins sharing device.  Does that violate SOP?
Alex: Just saying if you previously connected to device, don't ask device again for the list of things the device is allowed to do.
Hadley: OK, so just a cache of device capabilities.
<digression about Servo's logo>
Dan: Don't think we have anything further to say here.
Dan: close it?
Alex: Unless people have objections to the security model.
Alex: We don't have a pattern for the iframe delegation here, which is the last thing we talked about 6 months ago.

*Streams General issue (92)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/92
Alex: problem is we have many types of streams in the platform.  Media streams, new streams API, stream processing of audio data (different kind of stream), variants (bit streams, event streams, observables which are a separate API for stream-like constructs).
Hadley: but not Activity Streams
Alex: maybe these things are convertable.  If you look at the <video> element, you can get a 
Travis: source obj or obj source?
Travis: Harald from WebRTC tells me this (Media Stream) is a pipe that has media track streams in it.  If you wanted to record this thing, you have to shunt it into a MediaStreamRecorder through the use of a system that's not exposed to the Web decodes this into frames of video that you can extract and do stuff with.  Would be an encoded video stream of a known type like MPEG2 or MPEG4.   Whereas (this) is a bunch of data.
Travis: Readable/Writeable Streams -> Unicode Sstrings, Blob.
Alex: Some streams are clock-drive, some are push/pull driven.  Things coming from network usually pull or push.  Audio frequently pull-based.  But audio segment...  Pull is often the same as clock-driven.  Web Audio consuming streams, Web Audio ticks at a particular frequency and expects buffers to be pre-filled, which is very different from network streams.  A lot of these systems have magical impedence matching in them, or don't talk at all, and don't share basic types.
Alex: MediaStreamAudioSourceNode.  You get that from a MediaElement.  AudioContext.createMediaStreamSource() to get a source like WebRTC or audio/video to do matching between WebAudio (clock based) and other types of stream processors.
Travis: So you need an intermediary that's like an <audio> element.
Alex: ... or a WebRTC channel.
Travis: and that gives you out a MediaStream
Alex: In the Web Audio sense it gives you an AudioSourceNode.
Alex: example at https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaStreamAudioSourceNode .  Source code is gnarly because of so much setup.
Alex: no conversion to generic streams API.
Travis: Could continue to devine ways of convertig and extend this graph, or could look at what's making this work under the scenes and expose that as a raw primitive.
Alex: One question is whether t's possible to generate a readable stream from any of these other types.  Should MediaStream API should have getReadableStream() or .readableStream property.
Travis: do these things require buffering?  Implementation can connect <audio> to Web Audio directly without having intermediate buffers.
...
Alex: e.g., inside of service workers, if we get a stream from fetch, if we patch generic response to a consumer that knows what to do with it.
Alex:
    onfetch = (e) => {
          e.respondeWith(
              fetch(e.request);
          );
    }
this will consume that stream and not cause any of those buffers to be copied into user space.  Possible to create smart wrapper types, but you have to be careful about it.
Travis: In cases where we're using these readable/writable streams, it's cases where we know how to process the data, e.g., strings or a document.  Primitive types you know how to handle, including Blob.
Alex: body of response is a stream of bytes.
Travis: But once you introduce stream to user space, need a buffer, so read reads what's in the buffer.
Alex: Isn't that buffer is a new thing, it's that the buffer has to be in that execution context.
Alex: Let's say was going to be a buffer inside the document.
Alex:  [network stack]  [service worker]  [document]
Alex: wants a packet to move L to R and fill buffer on document with little packets.  If you have to process on SW then you have to let the packet wait at the SW and fill up the buffers.  Double up the buffers based on who gets to see the bytes during processing.
Alex: So when it's a pass-through it's nice not to have an extra buffer.
Travis: So a media stream could give you back a readable stream.
Alex: I think that's where Harald is saying these things are opaque.
Travis: That's fine, you'd get binary data.  I guess you wouldn't know what to do with it.
Travis: So don't necessarily know how to interpret.
Alex: MediaStream has 0 or more MediaStreamTracks.  Can clone them.  Can get and apply constraints.
Travis: Yes, sends signals across the channel.
Travis: Like a dynamically adaptable stream.  Ultimately bits flowing through it.
Travis: If you peek into it, have to figure out what it means and expose that.
Travis: Just a class with data members, sending some media in some encoding.
Alex: Why does getUserMedia not return a promise?
Travis: shipped before promises.  Based on geolocation.
Alex: Can retrofit.
Travis: I think chrome already does -- returns promise and supporst callbacks.
Dan: What can we take out of this.  There's no current document.  We wrote some notes last October; discussed in London.  Is there a takeaway.  Document we need to write?  If not going to write it then should we close this issue?
Alex: We should write something.  Think it's a big deal for us this year.
Yves: Important; we should do something.
Travis: I have doubt there's a single unification here.
Yves: You won't have single unification of all things that are called streams, but things like File API should use same kinds of streams as fetch.
Travis: Where would we need a 3rd kind of stream that doesn't work for either set.
Travis: I'd like saying all things are either 1 of 2 types of streams.
Yves: Stream -- receiving bytes and outputting something after some hidden processing.  Different from reading a set of JSON objects from a file.
Travis: Can we say what that distinction is?  We should say in the document if we're going to write something.
Travis: For static kinds of things, things that ahve an end like a dcoument, file, json object, string, binary data of fixed length, then Readable/Writable is your stream.
Alex: That can work just as well for a streaming video.
Travis: Readable/Writable stream fine to transfer a video file is fine.  But live playback while streaming...
Alex: A lot of things want to processing fo streams in real time.  You still want to be able to get frame-by-frame....
Travis: It's a way of subdividing that movie file into logical chunks.
Alex: There's different phases in the life of the HTML, CSS, video/audio being transported.
Alex: why not send HTML and get elements in a streaming way?
Alex: from network can feed in bytes, but from document context I can only feed innerHTML a stream -- can only send it a string.
Alex: The readable/writable stream thing.  The question really is about objects being sent or bytes.
Alex: Level of granularity you're making the difference at?
Alex: For media stream, talking about frames.
Peter; Also media stream where you want to polyfill a codec, want to receive bytes and produce frames.
Travis: also recorder
Alex: Recorder is welded shut.  Seems like a bug.
Alex: general unease about lack of base type, thus no generality.  Systems that want to talk will do so through special cases at great efort.
Travis: Is readable/writeable stream a base type.  Just handles bytes or strings.
Alex: Readable stream API has notion of a chunk, and chunks can be of many different types.
Travis: I wrote an HTML parser that took a stream of network bytes and took it in chunks.  Then I could take that logic and run as part of innerHTML, and spit out elements on the backend.  And you (Alex) are saying for media streams I could get the bytes out... if I could tell how someone's getting the bytes out of the stream.  EVery implementation different.
Alex: Readable byte streams as subtype of generic stream type.
Alex: It does seem like this menagerie of intermediate types used to smuggle data through the system without creating buffers is useful, but shouldn't be exclusive.  Like we've designed the SW streaming apis to allow ..
Travis: ... passthrough without reading the buffers
Alex: But flexibility to read the bytes if you need to.
Travis: So, yes, we're going to produce something.
Peter: We should talk to Domenic about this as well.
ACTION Yves to start a blank document on this.
< side discussion about houdini and worklets >

*Review Web Annotations specs (93)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/93
mnot: we can close this.  Issue open with them.

*Notifications API (94)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/94
Hadley: Alex is assigned to this
Andrew: I'll take over
<andrew takes notes for himself from Alex's brain-dump>

*Review FIDO spec (97)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/97
Travis: changed name Review Web Authentication spec

*Privacy Mode (101)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/101
mark: I think I want to talk to more people aobut this... it's getting more energy.
dka: I'd like to help with that.  I've been feeling the need more and more for this.  Have been talking more about how particular features should behave in privacy mode... there is definitely a need for other specs to hook into, when they're thinking about Privacy Mode (since it doesn't exist)
mnot: people seem to agree that's a reasonable thing to do
andrew: developers have issues with Safari's privacy mode and local storage.  It throws up an exception if you try.
mnot: that’s obliquely discussed in the document.
dka: is that desirable? I don’t think it is.  It should be acting as normal and then clearing all the data when you close the tab.
travis: old versions of IE do that too.

*TV-Specific Web Subsetting (105)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/105
Mark: I wonder if we can really make any progress on this one?
Peter: Not sure what the intention was.
Mark: Maybe just close the issue, and open a new one if we have something concrete?
Travis: I had an interesting discussion about this -- feel bad about creating a pocket of the Web that only works with TV and TV-associated networks.  But is that really a bad thing, and is it really different from a browser that doesn't implement certain specs?
Peter: Also different models here.  e.g., browser that's intended to be primary UI of a TV, only fed from certain known sources.  In that case, who cares, not part of the Web.  The other case is where there's a browser app on the TV that allows getting to websites.  Shouldn't have a subset of the web for those contexts.
Alex: Also a midpoint as well.  Developer-facing set of available APIs for content, which may be targeted at TV specific, but at the limit shouldn't be related to a single vendor or single subset of TVs.
Peter: ... Not sure people should define specific subsets, but let normal progressive enhancement techniques apply.
Peter: This comes from HbbTV, where you can feed TCP over high-def broadcasts.  Feeding web streams into TVs, and people can surf part of the Web.
Peter: There are browsers in refrigerators now.
Travis: Who cares if it's a browser that's not for browsing the Web.
Hadley: Has anybody taken the position that subsetting the Web means you are no longer part of the Web?
Peter: Should we make a statement?  The Web has progressive enhancement levers.  But don't carve off a chunk.
Hadley: Alex, Are you allergic to such a finding?
Alex: We'd need to take Travis's questions seriously.  We might be talking to people with very different cultural assumptions, so we'd need to think carefully about how to express it.
Peter: I don't know we have a particular need to issue a finding; not sure if anyone's questioning it right now.
Alex: http://www.oipf.tv/web-spec/volume5a.html (2014)
Alex: There's product-level overlap at Google (and presumably also Microsoft) - teams that might be asked to implement this stuff.  If that does happen we'd want to avoid having to do something to do like this.
Andrew: They've dropped a bunch of attributes, e.g., <script async>, etc.
Travis: Might be ok for app platform of a TV, 
Yves: so OK if you define it as a baseline, but not as forbidding things beyond that baseline
Travis: could be interpreted that way.  If that profile is being used to produce a general purpose web browser it won't work on the Web.
Hadley: That's a sound basis for a finding.
Peter: But there are a lot of pieces that the Web *is* designed to work without.  That's an important feature of the Web.  If your product uses the existing switches and dropping this detectably.
Peter: Also, who's the audience for the profile?  Is it TV manufacturers to say what they need to render on the Web, or advice to authors about what's likely to work on a TV?  Or telling manufacturer to say not to go beyond this list of features.
Andrew: There's no context to say which of those it is.
Peter: And then somebody in a back room sowhere might decide they have to not implement the features.
Peter: These types of documents give me concern, although some use cases of them are valid.
Hadley: Should we put effort into writing that guidance?
Mark: To be clear, this will have no force.
...
Andrew: Maybe a list of your (Peter's) questions would be useful.

*WebVR (106)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/106


*ARIA (107)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/107
Dan: I updated this to reference discussion from yesterday.

*WebUSB (108)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/108
Hadley: Awaiting spec review from us.  Was Alex, became David.
David: Oops!
Alex: Maybe we can dig in now?

*Generic Sensor API (110)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/110
David: related to #115
Hadley: Travis has given feedback
Mark: close it?  Travis gave feedback.
Travis: Tobie acknowledged feedback on twitter
Travis: OK, I'll close it.

*TV Control Feedback (111)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/111
Alex: Overlap with HbbTV / IPTV?
Dan: Is it premature for us to be looking at this?
Hadley: Also question about device API or URL / network architecture.
Hadley: Maybe I should take this? I remember being concerned about loads of device APIs vs HTTP URI architectures...
dan: Sure. Should we talk to them at TPAC?
Hadley: Sounds good. Let's ask yfuna if we need to comment before TPAC too.
<returning later>
Andrew: Strikes me as similar to Automotive APIs we discussed in march.  Device control API, in Javascript.  Strikes me as better as a network API.
Alex: can you help me understand?
Andrew: If you want to control a TV, you might want to do this from things other than the TV itself.   So a Web page interrogating the TV for channels, programs, etc.  Wouldn't you want that on a remote control, e.g., your mobile device, not the TV itself?  I'd want my phone to talk to the TV and control it, would 
David: How do you handle the security for things that you don't want to have access to it?
?: a web page
Andrew: An argument against the principle of device control APIs as javascript APIs.
Andrew: Maybe the device containing the browser is linked to multiple televisions.  The relationship is more flexible than the browser being the television.
Peter: And do we want to extend this to refrigerator, etc., 
Andrew: I did suggest on twitter we should consider the submarine API for the Web.  No Window object. :-)
Peter: I did work a while ago on network APIs vs. JS APIs.  Wanting a declarative, discoverable way of adding APIs to browsers.  Mark worked on document.  I haven't updated my work to Marks.  Mark's document on JSON description of HTTP API endpoints.  I did some work extending that so you can map a set of JS functions on top of those HTTP endpoints, and built a polyfill, that returns an object.
Andrew: Sounds frighteningly like WSDL.
Mark: Sounds Javascript-specific, which makes it probably OK.
Mark: WSDL was a shit-storm of pain.
Andrew: Objective is to abstract away fetch().
Peter: Yes, can just open a document and get an object.  Call it and get promises back, etc.
Peter: Was thinking about submitting to WICG.
Peter: Demo page: https://apidemo.w3ctag.org/
Alex: There's also GRPC, also has HTTP and JS binding.
Peter: missing an event model (want to hook up to server-sent events), and ability to have synchronous code client-side.  For that Realms, so can run without access to Window, etc.
Alex: Should see if worklets can do it.
Peter: I think Realms should do it.
(maybe either?)
Mark: do we need a finding here?
Mark: in-browser APIs vs. on-network APIs
Andrew: Just lay down some principles about the tradeoff.
Mark: Yes, not clear-cut.
Travis: Could this go into our existing guidelines docs
Mark: On API design.
?: ... separate physical thing ...
Hadley: If we revisit API design principles document -- data world runs into problems with browser APIs.  Some disambiguation or a section on that would be helpful.
Travis: Thrust of document assumes JS is your medium.
Hadley: define scope more clearly, or broaden scope?
Travis: I'm a little nervous about expanding scope, since large set of things that should be in the current scope.
Hadley: can we describe scope differently?
Hadley: e.g., clarify scope of current document to be Javascript API design guidelines -- less disruptive than including data APIs in it.
Alex: we should probably invite them to a call to discuss, given magnitude of proposed change
ACTION Peter to invite folks to future call for TV control discussion

*WICG Issue on Improving AccessKey (113)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/113

*First Party Cookies (114)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/114
Hadley: sounds like it's adopted by HTTP WG, done and dusted
mnot: yep, close it

*Ambient Light Sensor API (115)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/115
Hadley: Alex reviewed it, Tobie responded.  We haven't responded to Tobie's repsonse.
Alex: This is the one paired with generic sensor API.  I suppose I should respond.
Alex: will move to TPAC

*Filters in Canvas 2D (116)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/116
David: This needs assignment... I'll take it.

*URNbis documents (117)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/117
mnot: I talked to people about this further.  The parts that would impact URIs and URLs -- they've moved away from that.  I'll update the issue and close it.

*relative URLs are not updated pushState() (118)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/118
Alex: Lots of people asking for this.
Alex: People using custom elements and shadow DOM, wanting to update relative URL when you update base.  Just need to find out if it's web compatible.
Peter: Currently underspecified.  Spec doesn't say one way or the other.
Travis: Need to get issue on spec that should specify.
Peter: But should see if it's possible to change first.
Andrew: Can you update the base?
Peter: Dynamically update <base>.  Not clear that works.
Travis: should move to HTML repo
Peter: But we don't want it to just document current behavior


*TAG Review of HTML 5.1 (119)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/119
Travis: should we close it
Alex: the DOM has a lot of problems.  We should have the big discussion and provide feedback.
Dan: Comment from Anne saying we should review the whatwg spec.
Dan: Close this, and open issue on thorough HTML review?
Travis: I don't think there's anything blocking the transition of 5.1, but we should come back to it.
Alex: I'm fine with that.
Alex: HTML has tons of legacy stuff that needs to be fixed.
Dan: Alex, can you write this feedback in this issue?
Alex: Say we'd like to review this (HTML), but given scale of issues HTML has...


*Performance API's, Security and Privacy (120)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/120

*ReadableStreams (specs: Streams,  Fetch) (121)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/121
Hadley: did we cover any of this as part of discussion of #92
Alex: we should merge it
Alex: Readable Streams seem like in pretty good shape from my perspective.
Hadley: we've responded as much as we need to
Alex: I think can close it.

*Progressive Web Apps (123)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/123
Travis: anything more we wanted to do here?
Dan: can we close this?
Dan: Closed.

*Review secure contexts (124)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/124
Dan: I think we did this.  <reads comment he's written>
Dan: comment and closed

*Do we have feedback on Web Payment group's response to security & privacy questionnaire? (125)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/125
Discussed briefly and closed as part of discussion of #77 above.

*Review of WakeLock API and suitability for overall platform requested by 31 August 2016 (126)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/126
Travis: I can take it.

*Review origin policy. (127)
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/127
Hadley: Opened 2 days ago.  Looks like Mike has opened a new document we need to review.
mnot: I have another document.  Need to talk to Mike about it first.
Hadley: Assign to you?
mnot: Sure
