TAG Teleconference
03-Feb-2016

Present: Dan, Travis, Yves, Andrew, Mark, Hadley, dbaron, TimBL
Guests: Wendy S, Nick Doty
Scribes: Dan, Hadley, dbaron

Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2016/telecons/02-03-agenda.md

		* Automotive (Travis) - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/81
		* Fingerprinting (Dan) - with special guest Nick Doty - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/38 
		* The Website (Mark) - https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2016Jan/0006.html 
		* Changing the call time? (Mark) (see potential times) - https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/wiki/Potential-teleconference-times

--
Automotive - 
Travis: Working group issue 37 - style of their API design - []
Travis: there are 2 specs - data spec and API spec
... idea is to unify access to cars' automotive data across car makers, focus on infotainment system
... reading stateful info about the car / idea of zones 
... indicator lights
... Some APIs mutable - use the software to set doors to be locked or unlocked
... vehicle data spec covers these specific things they want to enable

Dan: what's the web angle?

Travis: they reached out on this API design issue... We could suggest something. The rest is just spec API consistency, issues with how they wanted to use WebIDL etc...
... their idea is the "car is the user agent." doesn't equate to a browser scenario. /..

Travis's thoughts: 
	
	## (Issue 37)[https://github.com/w3c/automotive/issues/37] Flavor of object/method relationships
	
	   I don't have strong feelings regarding `vehicle.dataInterface.method` vs. `vehicle.method(dataInterfaceString)`
	   Though I agree that there is a problem with having a conditionally available 'dataInterface', as it
	   adds complexity (e.g., `vehicle.**nullable**DataInterface.method` is unnecessary). See my other note below (**nullable `VehicleInterface` attributes vs. present with `supported=false`**).
	   If you want to keep the nullable 'dataInterface' support, then I strongly prefer using the `vehicle.method(dataPoint)` pattern.
	   
	   Using strings to retrieve interfaces in the `get`, `set`, APIs does not constitute 'magic strings' IMO.
	   This is a pattern widely used on the web platform. (e.g., addEventListener(eventStringName) works similiarly).
	
	## (Issue 72)[https://github.com/w3c/automotive/issues/72] subscription pattern
	
	   Some of this comes down to personal taste ;). Subscription patterns where the thing subcribed to changes
	   multiple times, traditionally use Events (if the thing happening in an event--though this comes with its
	   own overhead of building an event object with its infrastructure of bubbling/canceling, etc. which is not
	   likely applicable to you) or callbacks as you've specified. Callbacks can be used effectively where there
	   is no reason to have a tree-like structure for an event object to navigate, or where you don't want or need
	   certain event-like features, e.g., timestamp, cancellation. A successful recent platform feature using
	   callbacks is the mutation observer callback (which has a very precisely defined callback timing).
	   
	   I'm not opposed to the use of callbacks for change subscriptions. A trival solution to the problem
	   addressed in the first comment is to extend the `VehicleInterfaceCallback` type to provide not only
	   the value, but also the property that changed. E.g., change this:
	     `callback VehicleInterfaceCallback = void (Object value) ();`
	   to:
	     `callback VehicleInterfaceCallback = void (VehicleCommonDataType dataInterface, DOMString propertyName, object value);
	   Additionally, the `subscribe` method could be extended to subscribe to a specific sub-property.
	   
	## Other Feedback
	
	**Example code typos**
	
	   Is:
	     `if (i.equals(zone.driver)) {`
	   supposed to be:
	     `if (zone.equals(zone.driver)) {`
	   ?
	   
	   Also, the example uses `new Zone`, but this is not supported by the WebIDL in the spec.
	
	**Zones concept overengineered**
	
	   In the Vehicle Information API, the (`Zone`)[http://rawgit.com/w3c/automotive/master/vehicle_data/vehicle_spec.html#idl-def-Zone] 
	   concept is overly complicated. In implementations of the Zone interface using JavaScript (or nearly
	   every other language binding), there are already built-in utilities for checking for object equality 
	   and for determining if objects are contained in lists. For the spec, it appears that the `Zone` is
	   offering only two unique bits of information: whether the identified `Zone` is the driver's `Zone`,
	   and what union of the set of directional descriptors (the `ZonePosition` array) describe the `Zone`.
	   This can be dramatically simplified. Identification of the driver's `Zone` should probably be made
	   static (so that you don't need a `Zone` instance just to get the driver's `Zone`). The trouble with
	   the `ZonePosition` list is that there is no logical format to it--an implementation may list the
	   value `front` three times. What does it mean to have an array containing `['front','center','rear','bottom']`?
	   What is the use case for this degree of flexibility? Are you interested in pinpointing a specific 3-dimensional place in space?
	   If so, then a `Zone` would be more user-friendly with three dimensional attributes with limited values.
	
	**WebIDL clarification on Promises**
	
	   There is a lot of prose in the Vehicle Information API dedicated to explaining what the resolved 
	   Promise type is supposed to be. This is unnecessary, as the usage of the term "Promise" in WebIDL
	   actually requires the data type. For example, in the interface `VehicleInterface`:
	     `Promise get (optional Zone zone);`
	   must actually describe what type will be used when fulfilling the promise. From my read of the
	   spec, it looks like this should be changed to:
	     `Promise<VehicleCommonDataType> get (optional Zone zone);`
	   This brings up a second point, the definition for the `VehicleCommonDataType` should probably be
	   moved from the Vehicle Data spec into the Vehicle Information API spec. It was only after reading
	   the second spec that I realized what was actually happening with the (`get`)[http://rawgit.com/w3c/automotive/master/vehicle_data/vehicle_spec.html#widl-VehicleInterface-get-Promise-Zone-zone] API.
	
	**WebIDL clarification on arrays**
	
	   The use of square brackets `[]` for array types, while previously part of the WebIDL syntax, has
	   been dropped. Instead, I believe all occurances of array syntax in your spec can be replaced by 
	   `sequence<T>` where `T` is the type of thing to be returned in the array.
	   
	**help implementations by providing a public common mapping**
	
	   Given the problem cited in 3.2 of Vehicle Data ("Mapping vs. Extending"), it may be worthwhile
	   to publicly document how each interested manufacturer maps their internal signals onto the standard.
	   This is similar to how different desktop and mobile operating systems map their internal keyboard
	   input signals onto standardized key values. Such tables, while non-normative, are extremely helpful
	   to identify whether the standard set of types already in the spec are grouped correctly. Apologies
	   if such an exercise has already been performed.
	
	**nullable `VehicleInterface` attributes vs. present with `supported=false`**
	   
	   In the Intro to Vehicle Data, an important point in a Note describes implementation requirements.
	   This should probably be normative. However, it seems strange to make a nullable attribute "optional".
	   Perhaps this is a difference in terminology, but "optional" to me means the API might be missing
	   in some implementations of this API. This is typically discouraged--it is better to have all the 
	   standard APIs implemented in all cars. Otherwise, you add another layer of conditional logic to all 
	   use of your API which is to check to see if an attribute exists before using it. (In all your examples,
	   you always assume the attributes are present without checking--which is the pattern you probably would
	   like to enable for non-sample code.) Cars that don't support the attribute, rather than make the
	   attribute optional, can instead supply a dummy `VehicleInterface` who's (`supported`)[http://rawgit.com/w3c/automotive/master/vehicle_data/vehicle_spec.html#widl-VehicleInterface-supported] attribute is false.
	   This removes the need for nullability in the first place, which would be better given the pattern 
	   employed by the current spec.
	   
	**`subscribe` API will need clarifications**
	
	   When setting up the subscription, you will likely need to describe how these callbacks will be queued 
	   and invoked. There are a variety of existing tasks queues in the web platform today, and while it may
	   not be crucial for a car UA, it helps frame the timing for implementors if you re-use one of the existing task queues
	   described in the HTML specification. These types of APIs often leave too much unspecified because
	   they rely on implementation details that can be hard to predict. Consider requiring certain timining 
	   constraints/restrictions (as batter life can be impacted), as well as describing thresholds for 
	   exactly what represents a "change" with respect to each interface/property of interest.
	   
	**`availableForRetrieval` API.**
	
	   I assume that the availablility of various features can change over time (from not-available to 
	   available, and vice-versa). In this case, availableForRetrieval makes sense as a way of querying
	   the status of the Object. However, you must understand, that once an object has been obtained, 
	   there is no need to query for that object again (unless the object is a dictionary, which implies
	   that the data it contains is static). So, that was a little weird for me to think about.
	   
	**`availabilityChangedListener` API**
	
	   You probably don't need a subscribe model for this... just a call to get a promise that tells you 
	   when availability changes (might even work for a specific sub-property). When the promise fulfills, 
	   if you want to monitor for future changes, you can re-request to a change notification and get a new
	   promise.
	   
	**`not_supported_yet` enum value**
	
	   It seems strange to have this value. The auto implementor can't predict the future; just stick to
	   the present set of supported features. These will be re-checked in software in a future automobile 
	   update anyway.
	   
	**`VehicleInformationError` interface**
	
	   Typically, we like to avoid minting new Error objects in the platform. See TAG spec-review issue #88.
	   The pattern instead is to use a DOMException. It can still supply the string values you describe
	   the spec--it just re-uses the existing platform feature, rather than minting a new thing. These 
	   DOMExcpetions would be thrown by the implementation, and would end-up supplied to the reject callback
	   of the `then` or `catch` APIs.
	   
	**`VehicleSignalInterface.`(`set`)[http://rawgit.com/w3c/automotive/master/vehicle_data/vehicle_spec.html#widl-VehicleSignalInterface-set-Promise-object-value-Zone-zone]**
	
	   It's odd to me that this is on the `VehicleSignalInterface`. What's the difference between the following:
	     `vehicle.door.set({"lock" : true}, zone.driver).then(() => alert("success"))`
	   and
	     `vehicle.door.get(zone.driver).then(door => { door.lock = true; /* success? */ })`
	   ?
	   In other words, there are two ways to do this right now. An alternative, would be to have all the 
	   `VehicleCommonDataType` and derived types be dictionaries. Every value would then essentially be
	   a snapshot. This would require multiple `get` calls to keep up to date with changing values over time
	   and `set` calls to change those values.
   
   
Hadley: In terms of how we're thinking about this... should this all be over http? - talk to it via http over tcp/ip stack. a RESTful service - rather than treat these as device APIs?
Travis: What they need is an automobile markup language - ...
... the APIs are an abstraction layer between the car interfaces and the user.
Mark: interesting question: where is the boundery between the browser and the car.
[meta meta meta]
Travis: it feels like you're accessing a device - we've got a web bluetooth API and that's what this is designed like.
Mark: I agree that's what it's like for the user but what about developer experience, etc.? I agree with Hadley - 

Andrew: there's only ever one car... 
Travis: my read is that there's one car
Andrew: the way that self-driving car initiatives are going is that cars are entities unto themselves
... but I wonder about scenarios where you have fleets of cars...
Travis: e.g. i get in an accident and my car broadcasts that to near-by cars.
dbaron: what's the security model:  is the software using this API trusted software on the car, or other things (untrusted Web content)?
Travis: my car has LCD panel with system information -- that's embedded software that I can only update via the dealer -- feels like trusted software with no automatic update system.  I can imagine a system where I could get that same info (b/c it's standard) through a browser on my smartphone.  Don't think that was called out at all in the spec.  Now loading a web page -- would need to authenticate to my car -- maybe out-of-band identity management.  But none of that included in this API.[
Andrew: Seems like a great use case for physical web - car broadcasting a beacon -- offering HTTP APIs.  If took smartphone into a different car, could control that one following authentication the car requires.
DKA: [attempts to rein in conversation]
DKA: Maybe we need to have a more focused discussion with this group before we get back to them with TAG feedback.  Basic TAG feedback from Hadley was why doesn't this look more like RESTful architecture.
Travis: I still don't understand that feedback.
Hadley: Well, partly hesitating since I don't understand device APIs well.  But very diferent architecture/syntax/restrictions relative to communicate with stuff over HTTP.  My brain comes from perspective of communicating over HTTP, being able to use HTTP (useful/known) to find out something there, deal with not there, construct fluid architecture that can already deal with things not being available  (like a car model having / not having doors.)
Travis: so rather than having layer of APIs that does detection and implements all this stuff, maybe as simple as using HTTP, doing a GET for a door URL and it would be there or not.  And yet we keep adding APIs that look like this automotive API in the platform for various types of devices.  We have NFC, secondscreen, bluetooth.  Every new device gets its own custom treatment -- maybe a bad thing.
Hadley: I'd at least like to know -- presumably there are some benefits of having the predictability of a device API -- for example , you know the camera on a phone will respond in this way, and won't behave like a media API. You might want that predictability in certain cases...?  So there might be a really good reason for not using Web architecture in this context -- don't know about use cases / device APIs.
TimBL: I think there's a large topic-- designing too many APIs every week for every new thing -- mean that we're making a web that requires human programming at every turn -- can't use natural ??? that comes with for example having ??? in the car be just a bunch of JSON files.  sd card in a camera just puts photos in folders, and everybody understands filesystem.  My favorite would be use linked data, can mix different vocabularies.  Generic radio, or questions about super-duper radio.  So people can mix standards of different things.  So just saying it's good for something just to expose its state -- Web architecture -- had this big REST revolution a while ago -- has a bunch of benefits which I won't go into now.  So have you looked at doing it in a RESTful fashion?
DKA: I put into minutes a proposed wrap-up which I think considers that feedback.  We need to have a more interactive dialog with ?? to figure out if that feedback is useful to them -- going to suggest we get them on the line for a future call.

[Proposed outcome of discussion: we need more information from web automotive user group of what they're trying to achieve and for one thing why they chose the "device api" type approach as opposed to a restful / data oriented arch. Suggest we get some reps from the automotive group on a future call...]

DKA: who is best-placed to reach out to that group?  Travis?
Travis: May as well.
wseltzer: Ted Guild is the team contact if you need W3C help.

--
Topic: Fingerprinting
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/38
DKA: Agreement there was to try to organize Nick to come on call to talk about where he's at.  Mark, you've also been tracking this.  Nick, up
Nick: it's been published as a draft wg note - we responded to a round of TAG feedback - but we only saw some of it and missed another batch
... missed some feedback from Alex. Still need to respond to that.
... active work on the document - we have an issues list - some of that was creared at tpac
... part of the issues were providing more actionable examples - to spec authors who might be reading it.
... I have volunteers who want to help. TAG has expressed interest.
... that's current status - I have some questions about list of topics...
DKA: I was encouraging you to publish a draft.  But confusion in TAG came about we didn't think it addressed some of issues.  So one reason it came back on to the agenda.  Mark, did you have questions/issues?
Mark: I think the remaining issues were really Alex's feedback.  From memory, that would require some substantial rewrites.  So not sure how everyone plans to make progress on those.
Nick: I have some questions -- maybe I need to ask Alex.  If I can get answers maybe I can get a better sense of the work in front of us.  Whether it needs reasearch or different framing.  Do you think you can speak to Alex's feedback?
DKA: Let's try.
Nick: The first concern that was that maybe these things weren't actionable than the basic guidance in the unsanctioned tracking finding.  Interested in advice about what would make things actionable by spec author or spec reviewer.  One thought was need for better examples, e.g., how one group fixed things in a particular API.
Nick: Second point was about regarding clearing data -- some of the advice is about evercookie like thing -- need to make sure local state coordinated so cleared at same time.  Alex pointed out mkwst working on clear site data api.  Is there some other place the TAG wants guidance about local state / storage and clearing?
Nick: And finally on entropy, we've had this discussion many times about whether it's feasible or desirable to limit increases in entropy.  I think Alex noticed best practices there now are incompatible or confused.  I'm still stuck on that. The finding you (TAG) published was that should take reasonable measures not to increase entropy or fingerprinting surface . I'm trying to make the best practices here be ways to take those reasonable measures.  If you sthink they're still incompatible then I need help figuring out what that means.
DKA: My perspective is that you're right to focus on examples.  So on the first ... this kind of document can provide something spec authors can look at and say "I hadn't thoughta bout that".  I'm thinking about this article that Mark distributed about the studies about the use of canvas  fingerprinting.  Just even exposing that kind of information to more people would be good, for awareness.  What do othersthink?
Mark: agreed
DKA: Any feedback on Nick's other point?  I personally agree on your second point, that clearing of data needs to be in browser.  But not sure if it's in scope for your document.
DKA: Mark, any thoughts from you?
Mark: It would be good if Alex were on the call.  Happy to make suggestions based on what I think, offline.  Alex raised the issues; would hate to spend a lot of time on it to get to a place where he's still not happy with the outcome.
DKA: Good to have your feedback on record here.  Are you planning to give a first try to addressing Alex's initial issues, or are you blocked on answers to you  feedback?
Nick: I think in terms of providing examples, not blocked; can do that.  In terms of last point about whether suggestions about reducing entropy are confused or incomptaible, think I'm going to need some more guidance.  If it's that we shouldn't suggest that at all -- seems like opposite of TAG finding.
Hadley:  Can I make one more comment?  Feel like I brough thtis up a few times, but can't remember how conversation resolved.  I'm concerned about title of document, since I think "Fingerprinting Guidance" sounds like we're teaching people how to do it.
Nick: pull requsets welcome; have open issue
mnot: I thought we came up with a better one before and put it in the issue
Nick: issue is https://github.com/w3c/fingerprinting-guidance/issues/5
Nick: Hadn't focused on it because it didn't seem like huge point of contention; though the word "mitigation" could be added.
Hadley: I'd forgotten it had an open issue; I'm happy, and agree it's not urgent.
DKA: If you're going to produce a new version of doc / additional examples.  We'll take your questions and put them into our issue and ask Alex to spend some time thinking about them -- we can try to have discussion about these in one of our subsequent meetings, and come back with coherent feedback.  That's one course of events.
DKA: Wendy, anything you'd like to add?
wseltzer: I think this conversation was about fingerprintg, another place for potential coordination between PING and TAG is about privacy and security self-review.  We might want to discuss those.  Not now, but future agenda.
DKA: What happened in Melbourne about that?
mnot: I think I took it on.
DKA: So I guess we need to schedule that for future call.
mnot: I think we did.  I'd follow up with Mike West.  Mike said didn't have a lot of energy for it right now, and wanted to see how people used it.  So decided to revisit in about 6 months.  Gave milestone for Stockholm F2F.
wseltzer: The document has gone in 2 different directions.  Greg Norcie (?) in privacy interest group has been working on privacy self-review that builds on the document Mike started.
DKA: If we schedule some discussion on this document in particular in coming weesk, should we involve this person as well, and you?
wseltzer: yes, I can reach out to greg
(Nick: I understood the plan to be making the TAG security/privacy document shorter, and to build on detailed guidance in the Privacy interest Group.)
DKA: Any other points on fingerprinting?
DKA: I'll try to bottom out the feedback from Alex, and hopefully can follow this up with more conclusive discussion in coming weeks.
https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/wiki/Potential-teleconference-times

DKA: 2 more topics:  website and call time.  Both could feature bikeshedding.
DKA: Is changing call time clear and present issue for you?
Mark: in a few months
Andrew: by 19th February
DKA: So Andrew much more imminent.
DKA: David put together this thing on the wiki... helpful until you read it... then sad.
DKA: One thing we tried when Mark joined was to have rolling set of calls.  
[sound breaking up fro scribe!!!!]
DKA: rolling calls didn't work, people didn't join calls at right time
DKA: do need a weekly call... need to figure out time.  Much rather get up early than have call much later in evening than it is now for me.  (8pm-9pm now)  Hadley might not be as happy with early.
Hadley: ok with early, not a night person
David: option 1 unusable for Tim when in Boston
mnot: maybe do a doodle
DKA: these are all pretty depressing options
(some discussion on IRC)
TimBL: could do things based on when I'm able to be on the TAG call
DKA: I'm willing to do that if we can rely on the iCal feed and people paying attention to it.  Having the same time every week provides predictability and ability to plan around.  I'm willing to give that a go if others happy to do it,  but concerned that people will confused by it.
?: agree on confusion
hadley: iCal feed nice for me, but tricky to translate into other calendars for when people expect me to be around to block out this time
?: agreed
DKA: haven't resolved, but know the shape of it.  Mark suggested a doodle, but don't think he was serious.
mnot: not praticularly
mnot: what was wrong with option 3
DKA: depressing and I hate it
DKA: probably the least worst
Andrew: not a morning person
Andrew: Option 3 certainly a lot better than current time.
DKA: Can we resolve to try option 3 starting the week of the 22nd.  I'll confer with Peter (who gave regrets for this call and previous) and Alex.
dbaron: moving day could possibly help if people have workday conflicts
