W3C TAG Teleconference - 6 July 2016

Present: Dan, David, Travis, Andrew, Yves

Regrets: Peter, Alex, Mark

Scribe: Travis
--

*Progressive webapps
Andrew: engaged with Marcos, but found it hard to find an architectural baseline. I don't believe that Alex sees an architectural discussion.
Dan: Thought we could pull out some arch. issues to think about. 
Andrew: would appreciate some other opinions: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/123
Looked to address three areas:
.. "progressiveness" - we disagreed over the definition (is it a marketing term)? Marcos: Lack of a definition may have been a problem in the past, eg., with geoloc.
.. "canonical content (consistency)" - not sure I can find an arch. discussion there (and the 3rd topic) (and am not enthusiastic to continue to try). Manifest spec is conservative (full browser chrome), while Lighthouse requries either minimal or full-screen. We could register feedback on the Lighthouse github project as a point of feedback. (see https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/blob/0295887b88eebf6d80146dd5b79ed6f018451d4b/lighthouse-core/audits/manifest-display.js)
.. "containment"
Dan: Discussed this at the summit and got good feedback--the message seemed to be useful to people "same URL for any device, site adapts to the capabilities of the device". TAG hasn't said much aside from the historical mobile apps note... maybe we can pull that out and repost on the blog?
Andrew: How applicable is that to PWA? 
Dan: I see it as a "let's not forget" this principle of "progressive" (not beat folks over the head with it). URLs should be good and portable.
Andrew: I will continue to be a bit skeptical about PWAs.

*AMP
Andrew: Have heard nothing on this issue; happy to close.
ecosystem creation: AMP is all-or-nothing (you have to be all-in on their tooling system); this is really no different then other libraries that come with a toolchain. Mostly the argument here is about cannonical content. I would be more concerned if AMP became baked into browsers.
Dan: Perhaps we can lift cannonical content into its own issue and close this one? Sound good?
Andrew: yes.
David: you've heard of folks wanting this baked-in?
Andrew: folks have said shipping it with Chrome would help make these apps even faster.
David: is this more than just the refer-to-a-library-by-hash that people have been talking about for a while?  (That might be good to do for more than just one library.)
Travis: also maybe connected to ECMAScript modules, ...

*Web Annotations
Dan: Issue generated from our TAG comments: https://github.com/w3c/web-annotation/issues/313
Yves: Our comments addressed by recent changes to their specification
  Error conditions: section was moved to informative. (still wrong). Thought Mark might want to take a look. Don't think the concerns have been addressed yet.
Dan: I think we need to point this out. Is next week too late? Note Mark so he gets notified.

**NEW* Secure Context ready for CR
Dan: They are looking for TAG feedback! I created an issue: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/124. So, is this ready?
Would love wide review from the larger TAG. There are lots of good reasons why we should get this document published (and translated) so it can reach a wide audience. Anecdotally, have heard that news of the https-everywhere movement has not spread as far as previously believed (worldwide).

*Stockholm
Dan: Meet the tag event is scheduled; I haven't started advertising yet. We should seed the event with some topics... what should these be?
Ex: extensibility of accessibility APIs, secure contexts...
.. please put your ideas in the Slack. I will try to publish/tweet/post, etc., tomorrow.
Please start writing topics folks want to address here: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/tree/gh-pages/2016/07-stockholm

