TAG call 18 May 2016
Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2016/telecons/05-18-agenda.md

Present: Peter, Hadley, Travis, Andrew, Dan A., dbaron (late)
Regrets: Alex (implicit), Yves
Scribe: Dan

Topic: HTML 5.1.



Dan: So we discussed it a bit last week. Travis opened the issue. 

Travis: context on the issue [
... goal is to regularly publish HTML - so we don't have to be so concerned about what's in the document. Second we want the doc itself to reflect the current stable set of HTML that is shipping in browsers. We've been pruning features out of the html5.1 spec that are not actually implemented. E.g. table sorting, media controller, etc... not widely implemented. We're pulling this out. New up-and-coming features people want to bring to html, we are encouraging these to come through the incubator CG and then we document them in html when they're implemented.

Hadley: how do whatwg feel about this?

Travis: They don't care, they don't see the w3c document as legitimate.

Peter: the fiction (features being removed) is in the whatwg version?

Travis: yes. Most of them.
... we want to publish a 5.1 document before the upcoming TPAC in september. In order to meet the "wide review" requiremnets we want to have the TAG as part of that. Also a11y, i18n and other communities. That's the context. In the issue I said we could just go from the change list. 
... one more thing ... when we start the 5.1 candidate rec document in about a month at that time we are going to fork off a 5.2 document, the next train where all future editorial changes will be made. [target] for next year.

Hadley: the plan is versions every year rather than 14 years?

Travis: yes.

Travis: people are cautioulsy optimistic. huge amount of activity. 

David: so who's participating?

Travis: We have myself, Arron from MS, Alex Danilo from Google, Steve Falkner. Chairs are LÃ©onie, Adrian Bateman and Chaals. Otherwise we have random participation. Variety of framework folks. Lot of the changes we've made have been related to accessibility. Not a lot of folks from Mozilla. A lot of participation comes through old issues that we ported from the bugzilla db. We re-contacted the openers. 

Hadley: question for travis - it worries me that we have a forked spec.  

Travis: people won't know which is the authoritative doc?  

Mark: it's more than that - for the w3cx 

Andrew: it seems to me that we have a spec that is largely frozen in a mire of inaction because you cannot introduce experimental features ... hence the living idea of whatwg. But the tc39 idea is you release es 2016 es 2017 .. more elegent way to solve the problem?

Travis: that is our objective. To move to a model where we have a predictable publishing cadence. We would prefer to have a software approach (regular updates).

David: the other factor with the whatwg model - it does try to mark stability levels in the spec. There is a notion of different sections being at different stability levels. From an implementer perspective you have implementer feedback when you implement something which is not the right time in the [w3c] process to feed back.

David: so what was the staring document for 5.1?

Travis: the whawg editor's copy as of January 12 2016. But we've had 5.1 since we forked 5.0 to become a REC circa in 2013. What we did recently is reformat the structure of the document.

David: 5.2?

Travis: that will be the editor's draft when we fork next month.

David: so the intent is to not pick up changes from whatwg?

Travis: we will pick up changes and features - case in point - we will likely not have ecmascript modules in 5.1 because we only have a few browsers implementing. but come next year we should have 3 or more implementaitons and then that will be in the spec (5.2) - i have a pull request that we will put in as soon as we have a forked version for 5.2. Going fwd we only want to have the features well established and implemented.

Hadley: it looks to me like you've figured out how to work with the whatwg for 5.1 - kind of OK. Is that true?

Travis: our wg has sorted that out. I don't know it's the solution that the whatwg is happy with. ...

Hadley: is it a question we have to sort out before this doc goes out the door or is it a longer term architectural worry? We could spend some time on at our next f2f?

Travis: I will say that the editors and the co-chairs have been very methodical about reviewing every change that has gone into the whatwg document to see if it's a change that should be included in the w3c version. The content we're taking is what we feel is the right content to have in the spec. Would prefer to stick to more technical questions.

Peter: Also don't want to get into politics of it, but agree we should pay attention to html wherever it is being worked on. Part of the role of the TAG is liaising with other standards organizations. 

Mark: it's the w3c's responsibility to try to fix this. I wouldn't be surprised if the IETF were to recognize them more over time... The key is fetch. So much of the web stack is being written in relation to fetch. What are we gonna do when we have documents referncing fetch.

Dan: maybe we could do a  review and also explicitly reference the whatwg doc as well during that process. But that would implicitly condone the forking.

Peter: The forking is important for patent protections.

Dan: yes.

Hadley: you mentioned that normative references questions face the director - we're here to advise the director.

Mark: yes but he may or may not decide to take our device.

Dan: In London f2f 2 years ago we did take a resolution in the TAG that it was Ok to reference a whatwg spec (URL) if it was sufficiently stable. [i will dig up the resolution]

Travis to take a look at Anne's blog post and see about answering the unanswered questions.
