TAG Meeting Minutes - 9 November

Alex, Andrew, David, Peter, Dan, Yves, Hadley

--

RESOLVED: Next f2f - Boston, 7-9 of February - CONFIRMED 
		Should we do a meet-up on the 10th?
		ACTION: Dan to check with boston dev community contacts about doing a half/day summit on the 10th of Feb.

one after that - April 27-29 in HK

Penciled in July 25-27 - Somewhere in europe...

--

RESOLVED - moving the call time 1 hour earlier for the current time zone period

--

DOA: Some notes from Hadley

--

discussion on summit event in Japan

Travis: in web payment we had some feedback that hadn't come out in meetings... so that was useful.
Dan: I was happy

--

Polyfills 

Issue: defering to native implementations..

Question of what we canonicalize
		DAN: I think we should only use the word pollyfill in this doc and not lend our support to the proliferation of different names for different types of pollyfill
		Alex: +1
		Andrew: yes I agree though Brian Kardel had some reservations since other terms (prolyfills) already have traction


