Tag F2F London 31-03-2016
Present: David, Peter, Travis, TimBL, Andrew, Yves, DKA, Alex, Hadley
Guests: LÃ©onie, Chaals
Scribe: Andrew (AM) David (PM)
### Issue triage
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/110
(Generic Sensor API & Ambient Light Sensor)

TOPIC: Packaging (Yves), http://w3ctag.github.io/packaging-on-the-web/
yves: recently got input from Google as a solution for areas with poor net access.  Signing a collection of resources
...propose to move the spec into the WICG
dka: that demotes the spec from a group that can issue a thing to one that can't
yves: if we leave it where it is nowt will happen
alex: support this move
dka: does it make sense for TAG to retain involement?
alex: +1
dka: there are 14 issues against it, so what's the action? Move Jenny to historical editor, Yves to become editor, transfer repo to WICG
yves: we need to update the published version on /TR and publish it as a Note
... agree with moving the repo
dka: we shouldn't make a fork
yves: we should fork
dka: we could give perms to edit the spec in our repo
... OK let's move the repo to WICG.
... we need to make an update to the existing doc to show it's been superceded
RESOLUTION: we will cede Packaging on the Web to the WICG - Yves to make necessary edits and take on role as active editor for now.

TOPIC: Data on the web (Hadley)

hadley: there are two WGs, one I've actively involved in
... Data on the web best practices is the one I'm charing - https://www.w3.org/2013/dwbp/wiki/Main_Page
... three deliverables: (1) Semantic data usage 
dka: this is academic research?
hadley: not just that, also live data streams.  There's more pre-existing work in academia
... [Dataset usage vocabulary](http://w3c.github.io/dwbp/vocab-du.html)
... bar to publication for a WG note is easier than rec track, but WG wants to demo spirit of the rec track 'spirit'
... it's earlier in development than TAG would normally get involved.
dka: are there stakeholders involved in this that aren't academic?
hadly: not enough. Both reviewers are academic, needs more community involvement
(2) [Data quality vocabulary](http://w3c.github.io/dwbp/vocab-dqg.html)
hadley: addresses resistance to publish because data isn't perfect
... allows quality of data to be described. Disclaimer.
#magicdomid177
#magicdomid89
#magicdomid178
#magicdomid45
#magicdomid179
#magicdomid90
#magicdomid180
... people should publish data as 'exhaust' rather than putting a lot of work into it
#magicdomid181
#magicdomid91
#magicdomid182
#magicdomid46
#magicdomid183
#magicdomid92
#magicdomid184
... we're reusing existing vocabs, attempting not to reinvent wheels
#magicdomid185
#magicdomid93
#magicdomid186
#magicdomid47
#magicdomid187
#magicdomid94
#magicdomid188
... part of the challenge is 'how to we define quality?'
#magicdomid189
#magicdomid95
#magicdomid190
#magicdomid48
#magicdomid191
#magicdomid96
#magicdomid192
... ODI's open data certs are hard to boil down into one metric.  A lot depends on use cases.
#magicdomid193
#magicdomid97
#magicdomid194
#magicdomid49
#magicdomid195
#magicdomid98
#magicdomid196
dka: are ODI participating
#magicdomid197
#magicdomid99
#magicdomid198
#magicdomid50
#magicdomid199
#magicdomid100
#magicdomid200
hadley: not actively because ODI are not members
#magicdomid201
#magicdomid101
#magicdomid202
#magicdomid51
#magicdomid203
#magicdomid102
#magicdomid204
dka: I've been trying to encourage ODI to do a membership swap while wearing my extra-small ODI hat
#magicdomid205
#magicdomid103
#magicdomid206
#magicdomid52
#magicdomid207
#magicdomid104
#magicdomid208
hadley: we'd be very grateful for their help
#magicdomid209
#magicdomid105
#magicdomid210
#magicdomid53
#magicdomid211
#magicdomid106
#magicdomid212
travis: some of the arrows are styled differently - is there a difference?
#magicdomid213
#magicdomid107
#magicdomid214
#magicdomid54
#magicdomid215
#magicdomid108
#magicdomid216
hadley: probably an oversight, I'll pass it on
#magicdomid217
#magicdomid109
#magicdomid218
#magicdomid55
#magicdomid219
#magicdomid110
#magicdomid220
... (3) [Best practices for data on the web](http://w3c.github.io/dwbp/bp.html)
#magicdomid221
#magicdomid111
#magicdomid222
#magicdomid56
#magicdomid223
#magicdomid112
#magicdomid224
... We has to figure out the difference between data on the web and open data
#magicdomid225
#magicdomid113
#magicdomid226
#magicdomid57
#magicdomid227
#magicdomid114
#magicdomid228
... we wanted data on the web to be available regardless of licencing
#magicdomid229
#magicdomid115
#magicdomid230
#magicdomid58
#magicdomid231
#magicdomid116
#magicdomid232
travis: it's more open than open data?
#magicdomid233
#magicdomid117
#magicdomid234
#magicdomid59
#magicdomid235
#magicdomid118
#magicdomid236
hadley: different part of the problem
#magicdomid237
#magicdomid119
#magicdomid238
#magicdomid60
#magicdomid239
#magicdomid120
#magicdomid240
... comparable to early days of HTML and CSS
#magicdomid241
#magicdomid121
#magicdomid242
#magicdomid61
#magicdomid243
#magicdomid122
#magicdomid244
... we're continuing to argue about what is in scope
#magicdomid245
#magicdomid123
#magicdomid246
#magicdomid62
#magicdomid247
#magicdomid124
#magicdomid248
... we have a research heavy population in the group, so focus is specific to things like budgets, commitments etc.
#magicdomid249
#magicdomid125
#magicdomid250
#magicdomid63
#magicdomid251
#magicdomid126
#magicdomid252
... Not the sort of thing we need in a rec track technical spec
#magicdomid253
#magicdomid127
#magicdomid254
#magicdomid64
#magicdomid255
#magicdomid128
#magicdomid256
... want to move to unofficial last call in the next few weeks
#magicdomid257
#magicdomid129
#magicdomid258
#magicdomid65
#magicdomid259
#magicdomid130
#magicdomid260
... the group has been actuvely working on it but it has not had a lot of external review yet.
#magicdomid261
#magicdomid131
#magicdomid262
#magicdomid66
#magicdomid263
#magicdomid132
#magicdomid264
... it includes topics like provenance, metadata, data preservation, versioning, 
#magicdomid265
#magicdomid133
#magicdomid266
#magicdomid67
#magicdomid267
#magicdomid134
#magicdomid268
<gluten free muffins, Chaals and Leonie arrive>
#magicdomid269
#magicdomid135
#magicdomid270
#magicdomid68
#magicdomid271
#magicdomid136
#magicdomid272
... take all the annoying things that mean you have to do work before using other people's data
#magicdomid273
#magicdomid137
#magicdomid274
#magicdomid69
#magicdomid275
#magicdomid138
#magicdomid276
... quite often data is coming from an existing database or system, or from spreadsheets
#magicdomid277
#magicdomid139
#magicdomid278
#magicdomid70
#magicdomid279
#magicdomid140
#magicdomid280
andrew: isn't there some terrible data guidance from UKgov?
#magicdomid281
#magicdomid141
#magicdomid282
#magicdomid71
#magicdomid283
#magicdomid142
#magicdomid284
hadley: not aware, please share
#magicdomid285
#magicdomid143
#magicdomid286
#magicdomid72
#magicdomid287
#magicdomid144
#magicdomid288
... Open data Institute's approach to quantifying the quality of open data: https://certificates.theodi.org/en/ 
#magicdomid289
#magicdomid145
#magicdomid290
#magicdomid73
#magicdomid291
#magicdomid146
#magicdomid292
hadley: moving on to spatial data on the web:
#magicdomid293
#magicdomid147
#magicdomid294
#magicdomid74
#magicdomid295
#magicdomid148
#magicdomid296
... https://www.w3.org/2015/spatial/wiki/Main_Page
#magicdomid297
#magicdomid149
#magicdomid298
#magicdomid75
#magicdomid299
#magicdomid150
#magicdomid300
... Combining spatial data fro multiple sources
#magicdomid301
#magicdomid151
#magicdomid302
#magicdomid76
#magicdomid303
#magicdomid152
#magicdomid304
... Semantic sensor network ontology
#magicdomid305
#magicdomid153
#magicdomid306
#magicdomid77
#magicdomid307
#magicdomid154
#magicdomid308
... they started later than OD on the web. joint group between W3C and Open Geospatial Consortium, made governance difficult
#magicdomid309
#magicdomid155
#magicdomid310
#magicdomid78
#magicdomid311
#magicdomid156
#magicdomid312
dka: What are the use cases?
#magicdomid313
#magicdomid157
#magicdomid314
#magicdomid79
#magicdomid315
#magicdomid158
#magicdomid316
hadley: they have a use case document:https://www.w3.org/TR/sdw-ucr/
#magicdomid317
#magicdomid159
#magicdomid318
#magicdomid80
#magicdomid319
#magicdomid160
#magicdomid320
dka: What industries?  Oil platforms?  Examples?
#magicdomid321
#magicdomid161
#magicdomid322
#magicdomid81
#magicdomid323
#magicdomid162
#magicdomid324
Chaals: Ordnance Survey, meteorological data
#magicdomid325
#magicdomid163
#magicdomid326
#magicdomid82
#magicdomid327
#magicdomid164
#magicdomid328
hadley: <lists numerous use cases>
#magicdomid329
#magicdomid165
#magicdomid330
#magicdomid83
#magicdomid331
#magicdomid166
#magicdomid332
hadley: also 'publishing cultural heritage data'
#magicdomid333
#magicdomid167
#magicdomid334
#magicdomid84
#magicdomid335
#magicdomid168
#magicdomid336
chaals: eg how the River Thames has moved over time
#magicdomid337
#magicdomid169
#magicdomid338
#magicdomid85
#magicdomid339
#magicdomid170
#magicdomid340
timbl: is that what this is for?  data over time?
#magicdomid341
#magicdomid171
#magicdomid342
#magicdomid86
#magicdomid343
#magicdomid172
#magicdomid344
hadley: could be
#magicdomid345
#magicdomid173
#magicdomid346
#magicdomid87
#magicdomid347
#magicdomid174
#magicdomid348
hadley: we want to record the co-ordinates of an address in three dimensions, eg 'deliver my pizza to the window on the fifth floor'
#magicdomid349
#magicdomid175
#magicdomid350
#magicdomid88
#magicdomid351
#magicdomid176
#magicdomid352
chaals: mapping the moon?  Mapping things not on Earth has been moved out of scope
#magicdomid353
#magicdomid177
#magicdomid354
#magicdomid89
#magicdomid355
#magicdomid178
#magicdomid356

#magicdomid357
#magicdomid179
#magicdomid358
#magicdomid90
#magicdomid359
#magicdomid180
#magicdomid360

#magicdomid361
#magicdomid181
#magicdomid362
#magicdomid91
#magicdomid363
#magicdomid182
#magicdomid364
TOPIC: ARIA review with special guest LÃ©onie Watson -  
#magicdomid365
#magicdomid183
#magicdomid366
#magicdomid92
#magicdomid367
#magicdomid184
#magicdomid368

#magicdomid369
#magicdomid185
#magicdomid370
#magicdomid93
#magicdomid371
#magicdomid186
#magicdomid372
Leonie: Want to offer some insight into problems of ARIA, helpful if TAG could take a look
#magicdomid373
#magicdomid187
#magicdomid374
#magicdomid94
#magicdomid375
#magicdomid188
#magicdomid376
... How much do people know about ARIA
#magicdomid377
#magicdomid189
#magicdomid378
#magicdomid95
#magicdomid379
#magicdomid190
#magicdomid380
Hadley: I only know the headlines
#magicdomid381
#magicdomid191
#magicdomid382
#magicdomid96
#magicdomid383
#magicdomid192
#magicdomid384
Leonie: ARIA allows you to provide semantic info where none exists.
#magicdomid385
#magicdomid193
#magicdomid386
#magicdomid97
#magicdomid387
#magicdomid194
#magicdomid388
... Some HTML elements embed semantic info, eg <h1>
#magicdomid389
#magicdomid195
#magicdomid390
#magicdomid98
#magicdomid391
#magicdomid196
#magicdomid392
... Some don't, eg div and span, and these are very very common
#magicdomid393
#magicdomid197
#magicdomid394
#magicdomid99
#magicdomid395
#magicdomid198
#magicdomid396
... A set of divs that look like tabs still just look like divs to a screen reader.  ARIA lets you fill in the gaps
#magicdomid397
#magicdomid199
#magicdomid398
#magicdomid100
#magicdomid399
#magicdomid200
#magicdomid400
... roles allow you to specify a role from a defined list.  aria- prefixed attributes extend this with specific key-value data
#magicdomid401
#magicdomid201
#magicdomid402
#magicdomid101
#magicdomid403
#magicdomid202
#magicdomid404
travis: aria-checked would be added to a checkbox, or something pretending to be a checkbox? And ARIA conveys to the screen reader whether it is checked?
#magicdomid405
#magicdomid203
#magicdomid406
#magicdomid102
#magicdomid407
#magicdomid204
#magicdomid408
Chaals: Yes, there's an API that only screen readers use
#magicdomid409
#magicdomid205
#magicdomid410
#magicdomid103
#magicdomid411
#magicdomid206
#magicdomid412
leonie: previously readers would infer from heuristics, visual cues.  Platform accessibility APIs made lower level stuff available, less guesswork involved
#magicdomid413
#magicdomid207
#magicdomid414
#magicdomid104
#magicdomid415
#magicdomid208
#magicdomid416
... from 10 years ago we started using those APIs in browsers
#magicdomid417
#magicdomid209
#magicdomid418
#magicdomid105
#magicdomid419
#magicdomid210
#magicdomid420
... if you look at a checkbox and query it using an accessibility API it should be represented the same in both places
#magicdomid421
#magicdomid211
#magicdomid422
#magicdomid106
#magicdomid423
#magicdomid212
#magicdomid424
... reader creates an accessibility tree, ARIA allows you to modify it.  Currently only supported by screen readers
#magicdomid425
#magicdomid213
#magicdomid426
#magicdomid107
#magicdomid427
#magicdomid214
#magicdomid428
... Speech recognition and other tools don't typoically use ARIA
#magicdomid429
#magicdomid215
#magicdomid430
#magicdomid108
#magicdomid431
#magicdomid216
#magicdomid432
... ARIA is very complicated, understanding implications of what you are doing is difficult
#magicdomid433
#magicdomid217
#magicdomid434
#magicdomid109
#magicdomid435
#magicdomid218
#magicdomid436
... you have to understand the relationship between your code, the dom, the browser and the assistive tech
#magicdomid437
#magicdomid219
#magicdomid438
#magicdomid110
#magicdomid439
#magicdomid220
#magicdomid440
... sometimes you can make things inaccessible by adding ARIA!
#magicdomid441
#magicdomid221
#magicdomid442
#magicdomid111
#magicdomid443
#magicdomid222
#magicdomid444
dka: what effect would an author be trying to acheive?
#magicdomid445
#magicdomid223
#magicdomid446
#magicdomid112
#magicdomid447
#magicdomid224
#magicdomid448
leonie: say an accordian, to reveal chunks of content.  Devs understand that heading hierarchy is useful,
#magicdomid449
#magicdomid225
#magicdomid450
#magicdomid113
#magicdomid451
#magicdomid226
#magicdomid452
... but headings are not interactive, so they make it a button.  Screen reader can now no longer see it as a heading, but can't tell it's interactive
#magicdomid453
#magicdomid227
#magicdomid454
#magicdomid114
#magicdomid455
#magicdomid228
#magicdomid456
chaals: a accessibility API is like a parallel DOM.  ARIA provides a way to control the things in that DOM
#magicdomid457
#magicdomid229
#magicdomid458
#magicdomid115
#magicdomid459
#magicdomid230
#magicdomid460
... people get confused between what they already have in their code and what they are modifying by using ARIA
#magicdomid461
#magicdomid231
#magicdomid462
#magicdomid116
#magicdomid463
#magicdomid232
#magicdomid464
... they put the wrong bit of ARIA in the wrong place
#magicdomid465
#magicdomid233
#magicdomid466
#magicdomid117
#magicdomid467
#magicdomid234
#magicdomid468
hadley: how is takeup of ARIA?
#magicdomid469
#magicdomid235
#magicdomid470
#magicdomid118
#magicdomid471
#magicdomid236
#magicdomid472
chaals: very widely used.  Big success, when done right (so be careful about messing with it)
#magicdomid473
#magicdomid237
#magicdomid474
#magicdomid119
#magicdomid475
#magicdomid238
#magicdomid476
alex: it's helpful to talk about who is using ARIA most.  Component library authors.  Libs are strongly ARIA-hinted.  Investments at framework level filter down.
#magicdomid477
#magicdomid239
#magicdomid478
#magicdomid120
#magicdomid479
#magicdomid240
#magicdomid480
... the more popular the component is the more pressure to get ARIA right
#magicdomid481
#magicdomid241
#magicdomid482
#magicdomid121
#magicdomid483
#magicdomid242
#magicdomid484
... ARIA provides half a toolbox, there are a series of intrinsic roles and states in HTML which are not supported by ARIA.  No way to extend it
#magicdomid485
#magicdomid243
#magicdomid486
#magicdomid122
#magicdomid487
#magicdomid244
#magicdomid488
... there's no assistive technology tree in spec land.  Chrome has one, but it's not standardised
#magicdomid489
#magicdomid245
#magicdomid490
#magicdomid123
#magicdomid491
#magicdomid246
#magicdomid492
chaals: each OS has one, some have several
#magicdomid493
#magicdomid247
#magicdomid494
#magicdomid124
#magicdomid495
#magicdomid248
#magicdomid496
andrew: Two problems: Devs need better tools, and need to use ARIA better
#magicdomid497
#magicdomid249
#magicdomid498
#magicdomid125
#magicdomid499
#magicdomid250
#magicdomid500
alex: plus ARIA is not extensible. I couldn't add my own nouns and verbs.
#magicdomid501
#magicdomid251
#magicdomid502
#magicdomid126
#magicdomid503
#magicdomid252
#magicdomid504
dka: what's the best way for TAG to engage?
#magicdomid505
#magicdomid253
#magicdomid506
#magicdomid127
#magicdomid507
#magicdomid254
#magicdomid508
leonie: msft has accessibiity patterns, which are extensible.  Other ideas for making ARIA extensible
#magicdomid509
#magicdomid255
#magicdomid510
#magicdomid128
#magicdomid511
#magicdomid256
#magicdomid512
dbaron: there's a fourth problem: ARIA can sometimes do things that could be relevant to all users in a way that's doesn't apply to anyone who is not using an accessibility tool.  The difference makes it harder for devs to get it right
#magicdomid513
#magicdomid257
#magicdomid514
#magicdomid129
#magicdomid515
#magicdomid258
#magicdomid516
chaals: TAG could help with creating extensibility, but main thing is trying to get things back in sync
#magicdomid517
#magicdomid259
#magicdomid518
#magicdomid130
#magicdomid519
#magicdomid260
#magicdomid520
... there's recognition that a big rethink of ARIA might not be a bad idea.  TAG should engage with that.
#magicdomid521
#magicdomid261
#magicdomid522
#magicdomid131
#magicdomid523
#magicdomid262
#magicdomid524
... also would be nice to standardise the accessibility trees
#magicdomid525
#magicdomid263
#magicdomid526
#magicdomid132
#magicdomid527
#magicdomid264
#magicdomid528
... maybe we could get that done in 10 years (if we start now)
#magicdomid529
#magicdomid265
#magicdomid530
#magicdomid133
#magicdomid531
#magicdomid266
#magicdomid532
... when users write ARIA, you have to write a set of interactions. This experience is broken, you are assuming you know what the user's keyboard is.  Sometimes you don't have enough choice
#magicdomid533
#magicdomid267
#magicdomid534
#magicdomid134
#magicdomid535
#magicdomid268
#magicdomid536
... ARIA folks are creating hard coded mapping between keys and actions like opening tabs and following links
#magicdomid537
#magicdomid269
#magicdomid538
#magicdomid135
#magicdomid539
#magicdomid270
#magicdomid540
Leonie: Is ARIA right in it's isolationism
#magicdomid541
#magicdomid271
#magicdomid542
#magicdomid136
#magicdomid543
#magicdomid272
#magicdomid544
alex: what would be a better way?
#magicdomid545
#magicdomid273
#magicdomid546
#magicdomid137
#magicdomid547
#magicdomid274
#magicdomid548
Leonie: there could be an attribute to indicate the presence of keyboard shortcuts, but there are still many problems with that
#magicdomid549
#magicdomid275
#magicdomid550
#magicdomid138
#magicdomid551
#magicdomid276
#magicdomid552
alex: is there a list of requests/requirements from AT vendors?
#magicdomid553
#magicdomid277
#magicdomid554
#magicdomid139
#magicdomid555
#magicdomid278
#magicdomid556
Leonie: not publicly.  JAWS won't collaborate, but IBM are engaging, reported second hand.  Apple's voiceover and accessibility teams are pretty engaged
#magicdomid557
#magicdomid279
#magicdomid558
#magicdomid140
#magicdomid559
#magicdomid280
#magicdomid560
Chaals: What would a solution look like?  Something that would work everywhere. You say "this thing is one of those", data widget, picker etc.
#magicdomid561
#magicdomid281
#magicdomid562
#magicdomid141
#magicdomid563
#magicdomid282
#magicdomid564
... is="" could be it if done properly
#magicdomid565
#magicdomid283
#magicdomid566
#magicdomid142
#magicdomid567
#magicdomid284
#magicdomid568
... I was hoping you could take ARIA and get there from here, but I don't think it's possible, it will break existing ARIA
#magicdomid569
#magicdomid285
#magicdomid570
#magicdomid143
#magicdomid571
#magicdomid286
#magicdomid572
... could there be a small number of well defined questions, eg 'does this thing participate in form submission'
#magicdomid573
#magicdomid287
#magicdomid574
#magicdomid144
#magicdomid575
#magicdomid288
#magicdomid576
travis: ARIA 1.1 lists not only roles and states but also interaction reqs?
#magicdomid577
#magicdomid289
#magicdomid578
#magicdomid145
#magicdomid579
#magicdomid290
#magicdomid580
Chaals: Yes
#magicdomid581
#magicdomid291
#magicdomid582
#magicdomid146
#magicdomid583
#magicdomid292
#magicdomid584
travis: So you already have an enumeration of behaviours.  Starting point?
#magicdomid585
#magicdomid293
#magicdomid586
#magicdomid147
#magicdomid587
#magicdomid294
#magicdomid588
Chaals: Essentially that spec is an attempt to provide code for a standard set of controls.
#magicdomid589
#magicdomid295
#magicdomid590
#magicdomid148
#magicdomid591
#magicdomid296
#magicdomid592
alex: you want a way of saying there's a built in behaviour and I want to participate in that behaviour
#magicdomid593
#magicdomid297
#magicdomid594
#magicdomid149
#magicdomid595
#magicdomid298
#magicdomid596
andrew: isn't that what role is for
#magicdomid597
#magicdomid299
#magicdomid598
#magicdomid150
#magicdomid599
#magicdomid300
#magicdomid600
chaals: no, screen reader will announce the role but the role does not carry any interaction.  Andrew is channeling the ignorance of the masses.
#magicdomid601
#magicdomid301
#magicdomid602
#magicdomid151
#magicdomid603
#magicdomid302
#magicdomid604
... particularly interesting with components made up of multiple elements eg slider
#magicdomid605
#magicdomid303
#magicdomid606
#magicdomid152
#magicdomid607
#magicdomid304
#magicdomid608
travis: contenteditable good example of an attribute that turns on lots of complex behaviour
#magicdomid609
#magicdomid305
#magicdomid610
#magicdomid153
#magicdomid611
#magicdomid306
#magicdomid612
Chaals: ARIA doesn't even attempt to deal with contenteditable
#magicdomid613
#magicdomid307
#magicdomid614
#magicdomid154
#magicdomid615
#magicdomid308
#magicdomid616
timbl: why is contenteditable a bad idea?
#magicdomid617
#magicdomid309
#magicdomid618
#magicdomid155
#magicdomid619
#magicdomid310
#magicdomid620
Chaals: one attribute kicks off massive amount of behaviour, not standardised.
#magicdomid621
#magicdomid311
#magicdomid622
#magicdomid156
#magicdomid623
#magicdomid312
#magicdomid624
[ratholing into the problems of contenteditable]
#magicdomid625
#magicdomid313
#magicdomid626
#magicdomid157
#magicdomid627
#magicdomid314
#magicdomid628
dka: actions?
#magicdomid629
#magicdomid315
#magicdomid630
#magicdomid158
#magicdomid631
#magicdomid316
#magicdomid632
alex: we should angle for completeness in ARIA, ability to represent things that you can do in HTML
#magicdomid633
#magicdomid317
#magicdomid634
#magicdomid159
#magicdomid635
#magicdomid318
#magicdomid636
dka: something you could write, alex?
#magicdomid637
#magicdomid319
#magicdomid638
#magicdomid160
#magicdomid639
#magicdomid320
#magicdomid640
chaals: look at what accessibility APIs do, why they exist, so you can engage with the topic.  bring your understanding of extensibility into the conversation.
#magicdomid641
#magicdomid321
#magicdomid642
#magicdomid161
#magicdomid643
#magicdomid322
#magicdomid644
... ARIA is developed by screen reader people in a vaccum
#magicdomid645
#magicdomid323
#magicdomid646
#magicdomid162
#magicdomid647
#magicdomid324
#magicdomid648
... unifying the way that people do these things would be useful.
#magicdomid649
#magicdomid325
#magicdomid650
#magicdomid163
#magicdomid651
#magicdomid326
#magicdomid652
[ ARIA issues list: https://github.com/w3c/aria/issues ]
#magicdomid653
#magicdomid327
#magicdomid654
#magicdomid164
#magicdomid655
#magicdomid328
#magicdomid656
[ Further reading (via LÃ©onie ) https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2015/03/web-accessibility-with-accessibility-api/ ]
#magicdomid657
#magicdomid329
#magicdomid658
#magicdomid165
#magicdomid659
#magicdomid330
#magicdomid660
dka: nothing assigned to ARIA 2 in the issue list? 
#magicdomid661
#magicdomid331
#magicdomid662
#magicdomid166
#magicdomid663
#magicdomid332
#magicdomid664
Leonie: chair of the group if hyper focused on 1.1
#magicdomid665
#magicdomid333
#magicdomid666
#magicdomid167
#magicdomid667
#magicdomid334
#magicdomid668
dka: Should we recast this discussion as feedback on 1.1
#magicdomid669
#magicdomid335
#magicdomid670
#magicdomid168
#magicdomid671
#magicdomid336
#magicdomid672
Leonie/Chaals: No
#magicdomid673
#magicdomid337
#magicdomid674
#magicdomid169
#magicdomid675
#magicdomid338
#magicdomid676
Chaals: you need to get to a level of understanding.
#magicdomid677
#magicdomid339
#magicdomid678
#magicdomid170
#magicdomid679
#magicdomid340
#magicdomid680
... there are things that make sense as feedback on 1.1 but that's not what the TAG should be doing
#magicdomid681
#magicdomid341
#magicdomid682
#magicdomid171
#magicdomid683
#magicdomid342
#magicdomid684
alex: tips for becoming fluent in ARIA?
#magicdomid685
#magicdomid343
#magicdomid686
#magicdomid172
#magicdomid687
#magicdomid344
#magicdomid688
dka: what can we attach our work to?
#magicdomid689
#magicdomid345
#magicdomid690
#magicdomid173
#magicdomid691
#magicdomid346
#magicdomid692
chaals: Go an look at [aria-keyboardShortcuts](https://rawgit.com/w3c/aria/master/aria/aria.html#aria-kbdshortcuts).  But TAG should not be noodling on tiny things
#magicdomid693
#magicdomid347
#magicdomid694
#magicdomid174
#magicdomid695
#magicdomid348
#magicdomid696
alex: Actually that's exactly what we do a lot of
#magicdomid697
#magicdomid349
#magicdomid698
#magicdomid175
#magicdomid699
#magicdomid350
#magicdomid700
chaals: you'll learn a lot from KS
#magicdomid701
#magicdomid351
#magicdomid702
#magicdomid176
#magicdomid703
#magicdomid352
#magicdomid704
leonie: if you want specifics, consider the password role.  Could be telling screen reader users that their password is hidden but it might still be visible if it relies on JavaScript to be obfuscated.  Also could be plainly announced by the screen reader
#magicdomid705
#magicdomid353
#magicdomid706
#magicdomid177
#magicdomid707
#magicdomid354
#magicdomid708
timbl: sometimes I might need the password read back to me, and sometimes I definitely don't want that
#magicdomid709
#magicdomid355
#magicdomid710
#magicdomid178
#magicdomid711
#magicdomid356
#magicdomid712
leonie: agree that the best role for TAG is in 2.0
#magicdomid713
#magicdomid357
#magicdomid714
#magicdomid179
#magicdomid715
#magicdomid358
#magicdomid716
dka: ok how do we structure this issue in TAG world
#magicdomid717
#magicdomid359
#magicdomid718
#magicdomid180
#magicdomid719
#magicdomid360
#magicdomid720
alex: reach out to chairs of ARIA?
#magicdomid721
#magicdomid361
#magicdomid722
#magicdomid181
#magicdomid723
#magicdomid362
#magicdomid724
dka: who is the WG chair?
#magicdomid725
#magicdomid363
#magicdomid726
#magicdomid182
#magicdomid727
#magicdomid364
#magicdomid728
chaals: Rich Schwerdtfeger, IBM
#magicdomid729
#magicdomid365
#magicdomid730
#magicdomid183
#magicdomid731
#magicdomid366
#magicdomid732
alex: we're not experts but we're used to being out of our depth and asking dumb questions
#magicdomid733
#magicdomid367
#magicdomid734
#magicdomid184
#magicdomid735
#magicdomid368
#magicdomid736
dka: can we do an in depth session in Stockholm?  is that too late?
#magicdomid737
#magicdomid369
#magicdomid738
#magicdomid185
#magicdomid739
#magicdomid370
#magicdomid740
Chaals: no, not much happening on this in next 6 months
#magicdomid741
#magicdomid371
#magicdomid742
#magicdomid186
#magicdomid743
#magicdomid372
#magicdomid744
... it's nor clear that the chair will be ready to have a discussion in Stockholm
#magicdomid745
#magicdomid373
#magicdomid746
#magicdomid187
#magicdomid747
#magicdomid374
#magicdomid748
hadley: when do the chairs want 2.0 finished?
#magicdomid749
#magicdomid375
#magicdomid750
#magicdomid188
#magicdomid751
#magicdomid376
#magicdomid752
chaals: no, they want to ship 1.1 first
#magicdomid753
#magicdomid377
#magicdomid754
#magicdomid189
#magicdomid755
#magicdomid378
#magicdomid756
leonie: again don't touch 1.1
#magicdomid757
#magicdomid379
#magicdomid758
#magicdomid190
#magicdomid759
#magicdomid380
#magicdomid760
dka: I'll reach out to the chair to organise something
#magicdomid761
#magicdomid381
#magicdomid762
#magicdomid191
#magicdomid763
#magicdomid382
#magicdomid764

#magicdomid765
#magicdomid383
#magicdomid766
#magicdomid192
#magicdomid767
#magicdomid384
#magicdomid768
<br role='coffee' aria-duration='300'/>
#magicdomid769
#magicdomid385
#magicdomid770
#magicdomid193
#magicdomid771
#magicdomid386
#magicdomid772
[not that data-* attributes are for private use, and attempting to understand the meaning behind the value is likely to lead to disappointment]
#magicdomid773
#magicdomid387
#magicdomid774
#magicdomid194
#magicdomid775
#magicdomid388
#magicdomid776

#magicdomid777
#magicdomid389
#magicdomid778
#magicdomid195
#magicdomid779
#magicdomid390
#magicdomid780
TOPIC: Improving User Interface interactions with very "special" interloper Chaals
#magicdomid781
#magicdomid391
#magicdomid782
#magicdomid196
#magicdomid783
#magicdomid392
#magicdomid784
[lost the early context here]
#magicdomid785
#magicdomid393
#magicdomid786
#magicdomid197
#magicdomid787
#magicdomid394
#magicdomid788
Chaals: screen reader users are very heavy keyboard users
#magicdomid789
#magicdomid395
#magicdomid790
#magicdomid198
#magicdomid791
#magicdomid396
#magicdomid792
... this model assumes you know the environment, can guarantee that the user isn't worried about how their keys work
#magicdomid793
#magicdomid397
#magicdomid794
#magicdomid199
#magicdomid795
#magicdomid398
#magicdomid796
... in acute accessibility cases you really have no idea.
#magicdomid797
#magicdomid399
#magicdomid798
#magicdomid200
#magicdomid799
#magicdomid400
#magicdomid800
... local keyboards, hiragana, cyrillic etc
#magicdomid801
#magicdomid401
#magicdomid802
#magicdomid201
#magicdomid803
#magicdomid402
#magicdomid804
... on french keyboards numbers require shift, so you can't specify modifiers like SHIFT+5
#magicdomid805
#magicdomid403
#magicdomid806
#magicdomid202
#magicdomid807
#magicdomid404
#magicdomid808
... TAG should consider whether this is a problem
#magicdomid809
#magicdomid405
#magicdomid810
#magicdomid203
#magicdomid811
#magicdomid406
#magicdomid812
... What does a solution look like?
#magicdomid813
#magicdomid407
#magicdomid814
#magicdomid204
#magicdomid815
#magicdomid408
#magicdomid816
... We tried to create intent events but that failed.  Required extra work.
#magicdomid817
#magicdomid409
#magicdomid818
#magicdomid205
#magicdomid819
#magicdomid410
#magicdomid820
... Any kind of architecture that asks devs to do that is unlikely to be adopted
#magicdomid821
#magicdomid411
#magicdomid822
#magicdomid206
#magicdomid823
#magicdomid412
#magicdomid824
... Don't want web developers to change my local conventions, eg scroll direction
#magicdomid825
#magicdomid413
#magicdomid826
#magicdomid207
#magicdomid827
#magicdomid414
#magicdomid828
... accesskey does work, if you read what HTML4 says, not what HTML5 does
#magicdomid829
#magicdomid415
#magicdomid830
#magicdomid208
#magicdomid831
#magicdomid416
#magicdomid832
... implementations vary from not very good to woeful
#magicdomid833
#magicdomid417
#magicdomid834
#magicdomid209
#magicdomid835
#magicdomid418
#magicdomid836
... nice thing about accesskey is that a JS approach is very hard to co-ordinate
#magicdomid837
#magicdomid419
#magicdomid838
#magicdomid210
#magicdomid839
#magicdomid420
#magicdomid840
... there's no negotiation path, two things can't negotiate over a key
#magicdomid841
#magicdomid421
#magicdomid842
#magicdomid211
#magicdomid843
#magicdomid422
#magicdomid844
... accesskey does enable that
#magicdomid845
#magicdomid423
#magicdomid846
#magicdomid212
#magicdomid847
#magicdomid424
#magicdomid848
... there's no way of discovering what the shortcuts are
#magicdomid849
#magicdomid425
#magicdomid850
#magicdomid213
#magicdomid851
#magicdomid426
#magicdomid852
hadley: so no-one is currently working on this?
#magicdomid853
#magicdomid427
#magicdomid854
#magicdomid214
#magicdomid855
#magicdomid428
#magicdomid856
chaals: I'm doing some cleaning up around the edges, but no-one else is doing anything
#magicdomid857
#magicdomid429
#magicdomid858
#magicdomid215
#magicdomid859
#magicdomid430
#magicdomid860
... there's no serious work going into it
#magicdomid861
#magicdomid431
#magicdomid862
#magicdomid216
#magicdomid863
#magicdomid432
#magicdomid864
... there would be a fairly big shift in how we do things
#magicdomid865
#magicdomid433
#magicdomid866
#magicdomid217
#magicdomid867
#magicdomid434
#magicdomid868
hadley: it's been like this for a long time?
#magicdomid869
#magicdomid435
#magicdomid870
#magicdomid218
#magicdomid871
#magicdomid436
#magicdomid872
chaals: Since CSS separated :hover and :focus, and JS handlers for onmouseover have been available... so
#magicdomid873
#magicdomid437
#magicdomid874
#magicdomid219
#magicdomid875
#magicdomid438
#magicdomid876
... it's a 21 year old problem
#magicdomid877
#magicdomid439
#magicdomid878
#magicdomid220
#magicdomid879
#magicdomid440
#magicdomid880
hadley: how are people dealing with it
#magicdomid881
#magicdomid441
#magicdomid882
#magicdomid221
#magicdomid883
#magicdomid442
#magicdomid884
chaals: they write poor jS.  In twitter I compose in a separate window because I don't understand what key combos have been bound as actions that I might not want to take
#magicdomid885
#magicdomid443
#magicdomid886
#magicdomid222
#magicdomid887
#magicdomid444
#magicdomid888
... accesskey by and large does not have this problem
#magicdomid889
#magicdomid445
#magicdomid890
#magicdomid223
#magicdomid891
#magicdomid446
#magicdomid892
... sometimes you can't use it though, because screen readers use all the letters already
#magicdomid893
#magicdomid447
#magicdomid894
#magicdomid224
#magicdomid895
#magicdomid448
#magicdomid896
... we rely on authors to do discoverability
#magicdomid897
#magicdomid449
#magicdomid898
#magicdomid225
#magicdomid899
#magicdomid450
#magicdomid900
hadley: why isn't the world complaining about it?
#magicdomid901
#magicdomid451
#magicdomid902
#magicdomid226
#magicdomid903
#magicdomid452
#magicdomid904
chaals: it works as an 80/20 solution
#magicdomid905
#magicdomid453
#magicdomid906
#magicdomid227
#magicdomid907
#magicdomid454
#magicdomid908
timbl: what would a better arch be?
#magicdomid909
#magicdomid455
#magicdomid910
#magicdomid228
#magicdomid911
#magicdomid456
#magicdomid912
chaals: declare behaviour that I want to trigger, and allow the UA to assign a trigger key to it
#magicdomid913
#magicdomid457
#magicdomid914
#magicdomid229
#magicdomid915
#magicdomid458
#magicdomid916
hadley: would keys be inconsistent between systems if they are reassignable dynamically?
#magicdomid917
#magicdomid459
#magicdomid918
#magicdomid230
#magicdomid919
#magicdomid460
#magicdomid920
chaals: do you follow the app convention or the platform convention?
#magicdomid921
#magicdomid461
#magicdomid922
#magicdomid231
#magicdomid923
#magicdomid462
#magicdomid924
hadley: there should be an API so the user can decide how to map actions to triggers?
#magicdomid925
#magicdomid463
#magicdomid926
#magicdomid232
#magicdomid927
#magicdomid464
#magicdomid928
chaals: devs should be able to set a default, requested trigger.  UA can override.
#magicdomid929
#magicdomid465
#magicdomid930
#magicdomid233
#magicdomid931
#magicdomid466
#magicdomid932
... needs to work with tools like sip-suck interfaces
#magicdomid933
#magicdomid467
#magicdomid934
#magicdomid234
#magicdomid935
#magicdomid468
#magicdomid936
timbl: some new gadget wants to use lots of keyboard, might shift all existing shortcuts to a different namespace, eg add a modifier
#magicdomid937
#magicdomid469
#magicdomid938
#magicdomid235
#magicdomid939
#magicdomid470
#magicdomid940
chaals: web applications could try to claim OS-reserved key combinations
#magicdomid941
#magicdomid471
#magicdomid942
#magicdomid236
#magicdomid943
#magicdomid472
#magicdomid944
andrew: There's a priority there, right. You couldn't expect a web site to override the OS defaults, would you?
#magicdomid945
#magicdomid473
#magicdomid946
#magicdomid237
#magicdomid947
#magicdomid474
#magicdomid948
chaals: IE4 could do that
#magicdomid949
#magicdomid475
#magicdomid950
#magicdomid238
#magicdomid951
#magicdomid476
#magicdomid952
travis: one of the modern problems is that on Windows, alt is reserved for OS level accessibility shortcuts. You get keydown but not keyup or any subsequent key presses because it removes focus
#magicdomid953
#magicdomid477
#magicdomid954
#magicdomid239
#magicdomid955
#magicdomid478
#magicdomid956
... in FF you can use alt+shift+accesskey, but press and release alt will rob focus
#magicdomid957
#magicdomid479
#magicdomid958
#magicdomid240
#magicdomid959
#magicdomid480
#magicdomid960
chaals: falling back to pressing tab hundreds of times is a horrendous UX.  Alternatives are not good either
#magicdomid961
#magicdomid481
#magicdomid962
#magicdomid241
#magicdomid963
#magicdomid482
#magicdomid964
dbaron: how much of this can be improved by UAs, vs. improve spec for existing mechanism, vs. a new mechanism that sites would have to switch to?
#magicdomid965
#magicdomid483
#magicdomid966
#magicdomid242
#magicdomid967
#magicdomid484
#magicdomid968
chaals: I don't know. If you have to have a flag day migration (?) that's not going to work
#magicdomid969
#magicdomid485
#magicdomid970
#magicdomid243
#magicdomid971
#magicdomid486
#magicdomid972
... where is the path that solves the problem and how do we get there from here?
#magicdomid973
#magicdomid487
#magicdomid974
#magicdomid244
#magicdomid975
#magicdomid488
#magicdomid976
hadley: the scenario you were describing, with a sensible way for the user to handle separate mappings of actions to keys from the OS, user agent, site... what would it break?
#magicdomid977
#magicdomid489
#magicdomid978
#magicdomid245
#magicdomid979
#magicdomid490
#magicdomid980
chaals: it wouldn't break anything (afaict)
#magicdomid981
#magicdomid491
#magicdomid982
#magicdomid246
#magicdomid983
#magicdomid492
#magicdomid984
andrew: so who should be doing it then?
#magicdomid985
#magicdomid493
#magicdomid986
#magicdomid247
#magicdomid987
#magicdomid494
#magicdomid988
chaals: accesskey is restrictive, can't use single keys.  Gameplay mode for access keys?
#magicdomid989
#magicdomid495
#magicdomid990
#magicdomid248
#magicdomid991
#magicdomid496
#magicdomid992
... browsers can implement improvements independently of each other, and the improvements don't break anything
#magicdomid993
#magicdomid497
#magicdomid994
#magicdomid249
#magicdomid995
#magicdomid498
#magicdomid996
... some of the improvements can be done as extensions
#magicdomid997
#magicdomid499
#magicdomid998
#magicdomid250
#magicdomid999
#magicdomid500
#magicdomid1000
... to get devs to shift their behaviour, it needs to be as good as the 80% that we have today that actually works
#magicdomid1001
#magicdomid501
#magicdomid1002
#magicdomid251
#magicdomid1003
#magicdomid502
#magicdomid1004
... when a native impl is good enough, motivation for developers is strong
#magicdomid1005
#magicdomid503
#magicdomid1006
#magicdomid252
#magicdomid1007
#magicdomid504
#magicdomid1008
... so we need the browsers on board
#magicdomid1009
#magicdomid505
#magicdomid1010
#magicdomid253
#magicdomid1011
#magicdomid506
#magicdomid1012
hadley: sounds like the charter process for a working group
#magicdomid1013
#magicdomid507
#magicdomid1014
#magicdomid254
#magicdomid1015
#magicdomid508
#magicdomid1016
alex: TAG is unsuited to doing anything except identifying holes in the platform
#magicdomid1017
#magicdomid509
#magicdomid1018
#magicdomid255
#magicdomid1019
#magicdomid510
#magicdomid1020
dka: is this something where we have consensus in the TAG that we should be doing something about this?
#magicdomid1021
#magicdomid511
#magicdomid1022
#magicdomid256
#magicdomid1023
#magicdomid512
#magicdomid1024
chaals: are you saying this is a problem, this is not a problem, or we don't know
#magicdomid1025
#magicdomid513
#magicdomid1026
#magicdomid257
#magicdomid1027
#magicdomid514
#magicdomid1028
hadley: what difference does it make?
#magicdomid1029
#magicdomid515
#magicdomid1030
#magicdomid258
#magicdomid1031
#magicdomid516
#magicdomid1032
chaals: looking for backup to support my advocating for change
#magicdomid1033
#magicdomid517
#magicdomid1034
#magicdomid259
#magicdomid1035
#magicdomid518
#magicdomid1036
hadley: personally I think it seems like exploring this and looking for evidence of what users need is work that's worth doing
#magicdomid1037
#magicdomid519
#magicdomid1038
#magicdomid260
#magicdomid1039
#magicdomid520
#magicdomid1040
dbaron: not entirely sure it's an architectural thing
#magicdomid1041
#magicdomid521
#magicdomid1042
#magicdomid261
#magicdomid1043
#magicdomid522
#magicdomid1044
alex: this seems to need a community around it that already understands the problem.
#magicdomid1045
#magicdomid523
#magicdomid1046
#magicdomid262
#magicdomid1047
#magicdomid524
#magicdomid1048
... the path from typing to effect is complex
#magicdomid1049
#magicdomid525
#magicdomid1050
#magicdomid263
#magicdomid1051
#magicdomid526
#magicdomid1052
... the ability to understand what's going on is hard, and it's a concern for DOM, HTML, etc.  We could put this on their plate
#magicdomid1053
#magicdomid527
#magicdomid1054
#magicdomid264
#magicdomid1055
#magicdomid528
#magicdomid1056
chaals: not asking the TAG to solve it, just say whether it should be solved
#magicdomid1057
#magicdomid529
#magicdomid1058
#magicdomid265
#magicdomid1059
#magicdomid530
#magicdomid1060
alex: depends how large the solution is, how many specs it touches
#magicdomid1061
#magicdomid531
#magicdomid1062
#magicdomid266
#magicdomid1063
#magicdomid532
#magicdomid1064
... may be more furitful to describe the new behaviour rather than how we get there
#magicdomid1065
#magicdomid533
#magicdomid1066
#magicdomid267
#magicdomid1067
#magicdomid534
#magicdomid1068
dka: actions?
#magicdomid1069
#magicdomid535
#magicdomid1070
#magicdomid268
#magicdomid1071
#magicdomid536
#magicdomid1072
alex: we could revisit keyboard events?
#magicdomid1073
#magicdomid537
#magicdomid1074
#magicdomid269
#magicdomid1075
#magicdomid538
#magicdomid1076
... you could imagine us doing a review of an element that has one of these behaviours
#magicdomid1077
#magicdomid539
#magicdomid1078
#magicdomid270
#magicdomid1079
#magicdomid540
#magicdomid1080
... answer in the form of a spec review
#magicdomid1081
#magicdomid541
#magicdomid1082
#magicdomid271
#magicdomid1083
#magicdomid542
#magicdomid1084
dka: we'll take this away and come back to you
#magicdomid1085
#magicdomid543
#magicdomid1086
#magicdomid272
#magicdomid1087
#magicdomid544
#magicdomid1088
dbaron: I don't want to sound like this isn't a problem worth solving.  need to prioritise against lots of other problems worth solving
#magicdomid1089
#magicdomid545
#magicdomid1090
#magicdomid273
#magicdomid1091
#magicdomid546
#magicdomid1092
hadley: right now this is a pretty theoretical discussion
#magicdomid1093
#magicdomid547
#magicdomid1094
#magicdomid274
#magicdomid1095
#magicdomid548
#magicdomid1096
alex: it would be useful to have event dispatch for keyboard events outlined somewhere
#magicdomid1097
#magicdomid549
#magicdomid1098
#magicdomid275
#magicdomid1099
#magicdomid550
#magicdomid1100
chaals: another piece that is critical is what users do
#magicdomid1101
#magicdomid551
#magicdomid1102
#magicdomid276
#magicdomid1103
#magicdomid552
#magicdomid1104
... how a browser works for any single app is not the issue, it's how users work with multiple apps
#magicdomid1105
#magicdomid553
#magicdomid1106
#magicdomid277
#magicdomid1107
#magicdomid554
#magicdomid1108
dka: we need to move on from this issue.  We'll have a discussion.
#magicdomid1109
#magicdomid555
#magicdomid1110
#magicdomid278
#magicdomid1111
#magicdomid556
#magicdomid1112

#magicdomid1113
#magicdomid557
#magicdomid1114
#magicdomid279
#magicdomid1115
#magicdomid558
#magicdomid1116

#magicdomid1117
#magicdomid559
#magicdomid1118
#magicdomid280
#magicdomid1119
#magicdomid560
#magicdomid1120
TOPIC: Streams (Travis) - issue 92 - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/92
#magicdomid1121
#magicdomid561
#magicdomid1122
#magicdomid281
#magicdomid1123
#magicdomid562
#magicdomid1124
travis: we're looking for a document ath defines the high level types of streams (see issue)
#magicdomid1125
#magicdomid563
#magicdomid1126
#magicdomid282
#magicdomid1127
#magicdomid564
#magicdomid1128
... I spent time looking at currnet streams std (WHATWG)
#magicdomid1129
#magicdomid565
#magicdomid1130
#magicdomid283
#magicdomid1131
#magicdomid566
#magicdomid1132
... has come quite a long way since I last looked at it.  Does a good job, describing streams, setting up defs, terminology etc.
#magicdomid1133
#magicdomid567
#magicdomid1134
#magicdomid284
#magicdomid1135
#magicdomid568
#magicdomid1136
... allows you to consume data from buffers etc.
#magicdomid1137
#magicdomid569
#magicdomid1138
#magicdomid285
#magicdomid1139
#magicdomid570
#magicdomid1140
... you want to be able to start consuming content off the wire before the end of the data stream
#magicdomid1141
#magicdomid571
#magicdomid1142
#magicdomid286
#magicdomid1143
#magicdomid572
#magicdomid1144
... this feature is about opening up the opportunity and describing lower level primatives
#magicdomid1145
#magicdomid573
#magicdomid1146
#magicdomid287
#magicdomid1147
#magicdomid574
#magicdomid1148
... allow others to describe their content as a stream
#magicdomid1149
#magicdomid575
#magicdomid1150
#magicdomid288
#magicdomid1151
#magicdomid576
#magicdomid1152
... what spec does not cover is conversions in the browser between different things.  Not specified.
#magicdomid1153
#magicdomid577
#magicdomid1154
#magicdomid289
#magicdomid1155
#magicdomid578
#magicdomid1156
... I can cover some of the high level terminoogy and concepts, but we won't be able to close the issue
#magicdomid1157
#magicdomid579
#magicdomid1158
#magicdomid290
#magicdomid1159
#magicdomid580
#magicdomid1160
dka: you think there's still a gap wrt to how streams are described
#magicdomid1161
#magicdomid581
#magicdomid1162
#magicdomid291
#magicdomid1163
#magicdomid582
#magicdomid1164
travis: we wanted to take a more broad view of steams than this spec describes
#magicdomid1165
#magicdomid583
#magicdomid1166
#magicdomid292
#magicdomid1167
#magicdomid584
#magicdomid1168
Dan: do we need a TAG document on "streams on the web"?
#magicdomid1169
#magicdomid585
#magicdomid1170
#magicdomid293
#magicdomid1171
#magicdomid586
#magicdomid1172
Alex: yes I think we need a document of the different kinds of streams, interactions and open issues.
#magicdomid1173
#magicdomid587
#magicdomid1174
#magicdomid294
#magicdomid1175
#magicdomid588
#magicdomid1176
David: â¦ a multi-spec spec review.
#magicdomid1177
#magicdomid589
#magicdomid1178
#magicdomid295
#magicdomid1179
#magicdomid590
#magicdomid1180
Alex: a coordination problem. You can take an audio stream - a media source stream - pass that into webaudio which interacts with a 
#magicdomid1181
#magicdomid591
#magicdomid1182
#magicdomid296
#magicdomid1183
#magicdomid592
#magicdomid1184
... clock based processing mode. Those all have different expectations.
#magicdomid1185
#magicdomid593
#magicdomid1186
#magicdomid297
#magicdomid1187
#magicdomid594
#magicdomid1188
Travis: one thing I'm noticing from the stream standard is that they want to accomodate all kinds of streams. They
#magicdomid1189
#magicdomid595
#magicdomid1190
#magicdomid298
#magicdomid1191
#magicdomid596
#magicdomid1192
â¦ do a good job from a taxonony standpoint. There's still value to doing the research and writing it down in a TAG document.
#magicdomid1193
#magicdomid597
#magicdomid1194
#magicdomid299
#magicdomid1195
#magicdomid598
#magicdomid1196
â¦ maybe through that process we find out things aren't so bad.
#magicdomid1197
#magicdomid599
#magicdomid1198
#magicdomid300
#magicdomid1199
#magicdomid600
#magicdomid1200
Dan: I suggest we do that - start a new document.
#magicdomid1201
#magicdomid601
#magicdomid1202
#magicdomid301
#magicdomid1203
#magicdomid602
#magicdomid1204
Alex: I think we should start with a review of byte streams: webaudio, webrtc, 
#magicdomid1205
#magicdomid603
#magicdomid1206
#magicdomid302
#magicdomid1207
#magicdomid604
#magicdomid1208
Travis: the way that this [spec] is written - it's in the style of ecmascript tc39 - it may be the intention for this to be integrated into ecmascript.
#magicdomid1209
#magicdomid605
#magicdomid1210
#magicdomid303
#magicdomid1211
#magicdomid606
#magicdomid1212
â¦ as a language primitive this seems useful.
#magicdomid1213
#magicdomid607
#magicdomid1214
#magicdomid304
#magicdomid1215
#magicdomid608
#magicdomid1216
Alex: the intent is to augment what is in javascript with a streaming data type.
#magicdomid1217
#magicdomid609
#magicdomid1218
#magicdomid305
#magicdomid1219
#magicdomid610
#magicdomid1220
Travis: In the spec they describe 2 kinds of streams - readable stream and writable stream. Both types have built-in buffers.
#magicdomid1221
#magicdomid611
#magicdomid1222
#magicdomid306
#magicdomid1223
#magicdomid612
#magicdomid1224
â¦ They're connected to intrinsic source or intrinsic sync. [intrinsic as in something you don't have access too - e.g. network or filesystem]
#magicdomid1225
#magicdomid613
#magicdomid1226
#magicdomid307
#magicdomid1227
#magicdomid614
#magicdomid1228
â¦at the most simple level you can pipe areadable stream into a writable stream. You can chain these together
#magicdomid1229
#magicdomid615
#magicdomid1230
#magicdomid308
#magicdomid1231
#magicdomid616
#magicdomid1232
â¦into a complex way. Signals propogate and convey a concept of back-pressure. State of the consumer so they can 
#magicdomid1233
#magicdomid617
#magicdomid1234
#magicdomid309
#magicdomid1235
#magicdomid618
#magicdomid1236
â¦adjust accordingly. E.g. a readable stream with a buffer of 3 - units of 1 ("chunks") - the source will start filling up
#magicdomid1237
#magicdomid619
#magicdomid1238
#magicdomid310
#magicdomid1239
#magicdomid620
#magicdomid1240
â¦this buffer. The signals will tell the source the total number filled in the bufffer. When you get to 0 there is some back
#magicdomid1241
#magicdomid621
#magicdomid1242
#magicdomid311
#magicdomid1243
#magicdomid622
#magicdomid1244
â¦pressure exerted. Sliding window built into the streams.
#magicdomid1245
#magicdomid623
#magicdomid1246
#magicdomid312
#magicdomid1247
#magicdomid624
#magicdomid1248
Tim: The goal is to fill the buffers. [referencing buffer bloat problem] - when buffers fill up everything gets slower....
#magicdomid1249
#magicdomid625
#magicdomid1250
#magicdomid313
#magicdomid1251
#magicdomid626
#magicdomid1252
â¦maybe the user moves onâ¦ that video or that sound will fall of the screen anyway...
#magicdomid1253
#magicdomid627
#magicdomid1254
#magicdomid314
#magicdomid1255
#magicdomid628
#magicdomid1256
Travis: the buffers are conceptual - not exposed â an implementation can optimize. Chunked delivery is reliable - same order deliver.
#magicdomid1257
#magicdomid629
#magicdomid1258
#magicdomid315
#magicdomid1259
#magicdomid630
#magicdomid1260
â¦an interesting concept called a tee - a splitting of a readable stream. Sigals get coalesced to create back-pressure.
#magicdomid1261
#magicdomid631
#magicdomid1262
#magicdomid316
#magicdomid1263
#magicdomid632
#magicdomid1264
DKA: who why what?
#magicdomid1265
#magicdomid633
#magicdomid1266
#magicdomid317
#magicdomid1267
#magicdomid634
#magicdomid1268
Travis: the blob proposal... that came out of ... describe the data in an immutable object. Then readers of blobs.â¦ a concept that's necessary
#magicdomid1269
#magicdomid635
#magicdomid1270
#magicdomid318
#magicdomid1271
#magicdomid636
#magicdomid1272
â¦ for dealing with large data.
#magicdomid1273
#magicdomid637
#magicdomid1274
#magicdomid319
#magicdomid1275
#magicdomid638
#magicdomid1276
Alex: we've made progress by making these opaque things that can "see behind the curtain" â¦ if you don't touch the bytes there is
#magicdomid1277
#magicdomid639
#magicdomid1278
#magicdomid320
#magicdomid1279
#magicdomid640
#magicdomid1280
â¦no need to buffer them. 
#magicdomid1281
#magicdomid641
#magicdomid1282
#magicdomid321
#magicdomid1283
#magicdomid642
#magicdomid1284
Travis: performance is the main driver. E.g. dealing with slower sources. Lots of async APIs can benefit.
#magicdomid1285
#magicdomid643
#magicdomid1286
#magicdomid322
#magicdomid1287
#magicdomid644
#magicdomid1288
Alex: we've got demos of apps that use service workers - showing better than network performance.
#magicdomid1289
#magicdomid645
#magicdomid1290
#magicdomid323
#magicdomid1291
#magicdomid646
#magicdomid1292
Travis: Another importan use case - transforming data. E.g. EME - you want to re-encode data as you receive it.
#magicdomid1293
#magicdomid647
#magicdomid1294
#magicdomid324
#magicdomid1295
#magicdomid648
#magicdomid1296
â¦ the concept of EME as is is it's own streaming thing. It gets chunks of stuffâ¦ you can do ad insertionâ¦ There's a stream
#magicdomid1297
#magicdomid649
#magicdomid1298
#magicdomid325
#magicdomid1299
#magicdomid650
#magicdomid1300
â¦ that was custom-invented for that scenario.
#magicdomid1301
#magicdomid651
#magicdomid1302
#magicdomid326
#magicdomid1303
#magicdomid652
#magicdomid1304
[discussion on whether it's worth while to get some of the existing streaming APIs to work with streams ...]
#magicdomid1305
#magicdomid653
#magicdomid1306
#magicdomid327
#magicdomid1307
#magicdomid654
#magicdomid1308
Alex: re-evaluate their types as subclasses [of streams]?
#magicdomid1309
#magicdomid655
#magicdomid1310
#magicdomid328
#magicdomid1311
#magicdomid656
#magicdomid1312
Travis: I will create a document.
#magicdomid1313
#magicdomid657
#magicdomid1314
#magicdomid329
#magicdomid1315
#magicdomid658
#magicdomid1316

#magicdomid1317
#magicdomid659
#magicdomid1318
#magicdomid330
#magicdomid1319
#magicdomid660
#magicdomid1320
[ â¦ brief digression into web payments â¦ - http://manu.sporny.org/2016/browser-api-incubation-antipattern/ â¦ ]
#magicdomid1321
#magicdomid661
#magicdomid1322
#magicdomid331
#magicdomid1323
#magicdomid662
#magicdomid1324

#magicdomid1325
#magicdomid663
#magicdomid1326
#magicdomid332
#magicdomid1327
#magicdomid664
#magicdomid1328
[LUNCH]
#magicdomid1329
#magicdomid665
#magicdomid1330
#magicdomid333
#magicdomid1331
#magicdomid666
#magicdomid1332

#magicdomid1333
#magicdomid667
#magicdomid1334
#magicdomid334
#magicdomid1335
#magicdomid668
#magicdomid1336
Peter: did we wrap up on Streams?
#magicdomid1337
#magicdomid669
#magicdomid1338
#magicdomid335
#magicdomid1339
#magicdomid670
#magicdomid1340
Travis: think so
#magicdomid1341
#magicdomid671
#magicdomid1342
#magicdomid336
#magicdomid1343
#magicdomid672
#magicdomid1344

#magicdomid1345
#magicdomid673
#magicdomid1346
#magicdomid337
#magicdomid1347
#magicdomid674
#magicdomid1348
TOPIC: Meeting planning
#magicdomid1349
#magicdomid675
#magicdomid1350
#magicdomid338
#magicdomid1351
#magicdomid676
#magicdomid1352
Travis: Stockholm?
#magicdomid1353
#magicdomid677
#magicdomid1354
#magicdomid339
#magicdomid1355
#magicdomid678
#magicdomid1356
Alex: Google hosting is confirmed, still owe details.
#magicdomid1357
#magicdomid679
#magicdomid1358
#magicdomid340
#magicdomid1359
#magicdomid680
#magicdomid1360
[ discussion of having the Saturday meeting on a boat ]
#magicdomid1361
#magicdomid681
#magicdomid1362
#magicdomid341
#magicdomid1363
#magicdomid682
#magicdomid1364
Peter: 28-30 July.
#magicdomid1365
#magicdomid683
#magicdomid1366
#magicdomid342
#magicdomid1367
#magicdomid684
#magicdomid1368
Alex: Some questions about the Saturday
#magicdomid1369
#magicdomid685
#magicdomid1370
#magicdomid343
#magicdomid1371
#magicdomid686
#magicdomid1372
Mark: HTTP workshop confirmed for Monday-Wednesday; submissions due in 2 weeks.  Space constrained.
#magicdomid1373
#magicdomid687
#magicdomid1374
#magicdomid344
#magicdomid1375
#magicdomid688
#magicdomid1376
Mark: And IETF the week before in Berlin.
#magicdomid1377
#magicdomid689
#magicdomid1378
#magicdomid345
#magicdomid1379
#magicdomid690
#magicdomid1380

#magicdomid1381
#magicdomid691
#magicdomid1382
#magicdomid346
#magicdomid1383
#magicdomid692
#magicdomid1384
Peter: Then TPAC, September 19-23, and we pencilled in 2 alternatives 27-29 for face-to-face, and also October 17-20 for SF.
#magicdomid1385
#magicdomid693
#magicdomid1386
#magicdomid347
#magicdomid1387
#magicdomid694
#magicdomid1388
Mark: Last time, pushback against week after TPAC.
#magicdomid1389
#magicdomid695
#magicdomid1390
#magicdomid348
#magicdomid1391
#magicdomid696
#magicdomid1392
Andrew: or Asia?  We could host in Japan.
#magicdomid1393
#magicdomid697
#magicdomid1394
#magicdomid349
#magicdomid1395
#magicdomid698
#magicdomid1396
Mark: IETF in Seoul, South Korea, November 13-18
#magicdomid1397
#magicdomid699
#magicdomid1398
#magicdomid350
#magicdomid1399
#magicdomid700
#magicdomid1400
Yves: Would be good to do [...] in Japan
#magicdomid1401
#magicdomid701
#magicdomid1402
#magicdomid351
#magicdomid1403
#magicdomid702
#magicdomid1404
Andrew: Nikkei also different environment
#magicdomid1405
#magicdomid703
#magicdomid1406
#magicdomid352
#magicdomid1407
#magicdomid704
#magicdomid1408
Peter: Would October 17-20, four days with a bigger event, work for everyone?
#magicdomid1409
#magicdomid705
#magicdomid1410
#magicdomid353
#magicdomid1411
#magicdomid706
#magicdomid1412
Mark: not the best week for me, but definitely not anything earlier and after TPAC
#magicdomid1413
#magicdomid707
#magicdomid1414
#magicdomid354
#magicdomid1415
#magicdomid708
#magicdomid1416
Yves: following week bad for me
#magicdomid1417
#magicdomid709
#magicdomid1418
#magicdomid355
#magicdomid1419
#magicdomid710
#magicdomid1420
Peter: what about November 7, week before IETF?
#magicdomid1421
#magicdomid711
#magicdomid1422
#magicdomid356
#magicdomid1423
#magicdomid712
#magicdomid1424
Hadley: prefer closer to Thanksgiving
#magicdomid1425
#magicdomid713
#magicdomid1426
#magicdomid357
#magicdomid1427
#magicdomid714
#magicdomid1428
?: week after would overlap thanksgiving
#magicdomid1429
#magicdomid715
#magicdomid1430
#magicdomid358
#magicdomid1431
#magicdomid716
#magicdomid1432
Mark discusses overlapping with IETF, maybe Thu-Sat of IETF week
#magicdomid1433
#magicdomid717
#magicdomid1434
#magicdomid359
#magicdomid1435
#magicdomid718
#magicdomid1436
?: maybe back to October
#magicdomid1437
#magicdomid719
#magicdomid1438
#magicdomid360
#magicdomid1439
#magicdomid720
#magicdomid1440
Mark: I had a possible conflict week of October 17
#magicdomid1441
#magicdomid721
#magicdomid1442
#magicdomid361
#magicdomid1443
#magicdomid722
#magicdomid1444
TimBL: conflict October 20th
#magicdomid1445
#magicdomid723
#magicdomid1446
#magicdomid362
#magicdomid1447
#magicdomid724
#magicdomid1448
Mark: November 8-9-10
#magicdomid1449
#magicdomid725
#magicdomid1450
#magicdomid363
#magicdomid1451
#magicdomid726
#magicdomid1452
Dan: And event on the 7th?
#magicdomid1453
#magicdomid727
#magicdomid1454
#magicdomid364
#magicdomid1455
#magicdomid728
#magicdomid1456
Mark: or 8-9-10-11?
#magicdomid1457
#magicdomid729
#magicdomid1458
#magicdomid365
#magicdomid1459
#magicdomid730
#magicdomid1460
RESOLVED: November 8-11, Tokyo, hosted by Nikkei (and not using September dates or October dates), Japan, ã100-8066 Tokyo, Chiyoda, Otemachi, 1â3â7, æ¥çµãã«
#magicdomid1461
#magicdomid731
#magicdomid1462
#magicdomid366
#magicdomid1463
#magicdomid732
#magicdomid1464

#magicdomid1465
#magicdomid733
#magicdomid1466
#magicdomid367
#magicdomid1467
#magicdomid734
#magicdomid1468
Mark: revisit January question?  Should we keep those dates.
#magicdomid1469
#magicdomid735
#magicdomid1470
#magicdomid368
#magicdomid1471
#magicdomid736
#magicdomid1472
Dan: I think we should keep those dates.  Week of January 16.
#magicdomid1473
#magicdomid737
#magicdomid1474
#magicdomid369
#magicdomid1475
#magicdomid738
#magicdomid1476
Dan: Could move a little later in time to space meetings out a bit.
#magicdomid1477
#magicdomid739
#magicdomid1478
#magicdomid370
#magicdomid1479
#magicdomid740
#magicdomid1480
Dan: Maybe week of January 30
#magicdomid1481
#magicdomid741
#magicdomid1482
#magicdomid371
#magicdomid1483
#magicdomid742
#magicdomid1484
Peter: When does TAG election close?
#magicdomid1485
#magicdomid743
#magicdomid1486
#magicdomid372
#magicdomid1487
#magicdomid744
#magicdomid1488
?: results seem to be announced in January
#magicdomid1489
#magicdomid745
#magicdomid1490
#magicdomid373
#magicdomid1491
#magicdomid746
#magicdomid1492
David: recent results announced 9, 10, 11 of January
#magicdomid1493
#magicdomid747
#magicdomid1494
#magicdomid374
#magicdomid1495
#magicdomid748
#magicdomid1496
Dan: first week of February in Boston or Iceland?
#magicdomid1497
#magicdomid749
#magicdomid1498
#magicdomid375
#magicdomid1499
#magicdomid750
#magicdomid1500
Alex: or San Francisco?
#magicdomid1501
#magicdomid751
#magicdomid1502
#magicdomid376
#magicdomid1503
#magicdomid752
#magicdomid1504
Mark: a week earlier or later would be good, I think
#magicdomid1505
#magicdomid753
#magicdomid1506
#magicdomid377
#magicdomid1507
#magicdomid754
#magicdomid1508
Dan: would week of 6 February 2017 be good, in SF?
#magicdomid1509
#magicdomid755
#magicdomid1510
#magicdomid378
#magicdomid1511
#magicdomid756
#magicdomid1512
Mark: could you do 8-10?
#magicdomid1513
#magicdomid757
#magicdomid1514
#magicdomid379
#magicdomid1515
#magicdomid758
#magicdomid1516
Mark: what about Jan 31 - Feb 2?
#magicdomid1517
#magicdomid759
#magicdomid1518
#magicdomid380
#magicdomid1519
#magicdomid760
#magicdomid1520
Dan: If we're in SF we should do a summit
#magicdomid1521
#magicdomid761
#magicdomid1522
#magicdomid381
#magicdomid1523
#magicdomid762
#magicdomid1524
Dan: I think we should do a smaller event in Japan, maybe half day or evening
#magicdomid1525
#magicdomid763
#magicdomid1526
#magicdomid382
#magicdomid1527
#magicdomid764
#magicdomid1528
Dan: But in SF I think we should do a one-day thing.
#magicdomid1529
#magicdomid765
#magicdomid1530
#magicdomid383
#magicdomid1531
#magicdomid766
#magicdomid1532
Peter: Cut Japan dates down to 3?
#magicdomid1533
#magicdomid767
#magicdomid1534
#magicdomid384
#magicdomid1535
#magicdomid768
#magicdomid1536
Dan: Keep 4 days for now until we figure it out.
#magicdomid1537
#magicdomid769
#magicdomid1538
#magicdomid385
#magicdomid1539
#magicdomid770
#magicdomid1540
Dan: I was thinking we might want to do a slightly longer afternoon/evening thing 
#magicdomid1541
#magicdomid771
#magicdomid1542
#magicdomid386
#magicdomid1543
#magicdomid772
#magicdomid1544
David: Also maybe check for big conference conflicts in SF.
#magicdomid1545
#magicdomid773
#magicdomid1546
#magicdomid387
#magicdomid1547
#magicdomid774
#magicdomid1548
Peter: so block out the third as well?
#magicdomid1549
#magicdomid775
#magicdomid1550
#magicdomid388
#magicdomid1551
#magicdomid776
#magicdomid1552
RESOLVED: Jan 31 - Feb 2 2017 is pencilled in for TAG meeting in San Francisco, with event probably on February 3
#magicdomid1553
#magicdomid777
#magicdomid1554
#magicdomid389
#magicdomid1555
#magicdomid778
#magicdomid1556

#magicdomid1557
#magicdomid779
#magicdomid1558
#magicdomid390
#magicdomid1559
#magicdomid780
#magicdomid1560
Peter: block out one more meeting after that?
#magicdomid1561
#magicdomid781
#magicdomid1562
#magicdomid391
#magicdomid1563
#magicdomid782
#magicdomid1564
Alex: probably plenty, also election coming
#magicdomid1565
#magicdomid783
#magicdomid1566
#magicdomid392
#magicdomid1567
#magicdomid784
#magicdomid1568

#magicdomid1569
#magicdomid785
#magicdomid1570
#magicdomid393
#magicdomid1571
#magicdomid786
#magicdomid1572
TOPIC: Issues
#magicdomid1573
#magicdomid787
#magicdomid1574
#magicdomid394
#magicdomid1575
#magicdomid788
#magicdomid1576
A few issues in the meetings repo: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/issues
#magicdomid1577
#magicdomid789
#magicdomid1578
#magicdomid395
#magicdomid1579
#magicdomid790
#magicdomid1580

#magicdomid1581
#magicdomid791
#magicdomid1582
#magicdomid396
#magicdomid1583
#magicdomid792
#magicdomid1584
https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/issues/12 - dependency graph
#magicdomid1585
#magicdomid793
#magicdomid1586
#magicdomid397
#magicdomid1587
#magicdomid794
#magicdomid1588
Travis: sounds like nice to have, but not critical.  Seems like we can close it.
#magicdomid1589
#magicdomid795
#magicdomid1590
#magicdomid398
#magicdomid1591
#magicdomid796
#magicdomid1592

#magicdomid1593
#magicdomid797
#magicdomid1594
#magicdomid399
#magicdomid1595
#magicdomid798
#magicdomid1596
https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/issues/9 - explore possible Web Components Best Practices guide
#magicdomid1597
#magicdomid799
#magicdomid1598
#magicdomid400
#magicdomid1599
#magicdomid800
#magicdomid1600
Alex: Is there something we want to do that's different from Jan's [gold standard](https://github.com/webcomponents/gold-standard/wiki)?
#magicdomid1601
#magicdomid801
#magicdomid1602
#magicdomid401
#magicdomid1603
#magicdomid802
#magicdomid1604
Alex: We've used this; works well.
#magicdomid1605
#magicdomid803
#magicdomid1606
#magicdomid402
#magicdomid1607
#magicdomid804
#magicdomid1608
Peter: adds link in issue and closes
#magicdomid1609
#magicdomid805
#magicdomid1610
#magicdomid403
#magicdomid1611
#magicdomid806
#magicdomid1612

#magicdomid1613
#magicdomid807
#magicdomid1614
#magicdomid404
#magicdomid1615
#magicdomid808
#magicdomid1616
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/14
#magicdomid1617
#magicdomid809
#magicdomid1618
#magicdomid405
#magicdomid1619
#magicdomid810
#magicdomid1620
Dan: I think the IP address issue has been fixed
#magicdomid1621
#magicdomid811
#magicdomid1622
#magicdomid406
#magicdomid1623
#magicdomid812
#magicdomid1624
Dan: https://github.com/w3c/webrtc-pc/issues/179 dom felt this was closed; I'm happy with it, and think we should close our issues
#magicdomid1625
#magicdomid813
#magicdomid1626
#magicdomid407
#magicdomid1627
#magicdomid814
#magicdomid1628
Dan: Was a pull request that added reference to document about IP address handling recemmendations.  This closed it as far as they are concerned.
#magicdomid1629
#magicdomid815
#magicdomid1630
#magicdomid408
#magicdomid1631
#magicdomid816
#magicdomid1632
Dan: We put something into our issue referencing issue 179 in their repo.  (Dan writes comment in issue...)
#magicdomid1633
#magicdomid817
#magicdomid1634
#magicdomid409
#magicdomid1635
#magicdomid818
#magicdomid1636
Hadley: ... links to https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-shieh-rtcweb-ip-handling/
#magicdomid1637
#magicdomid819
#magicdomid1638
#magicdomid410
#magicdomid1639
#magicdomid820
#magicdomid1640
Mark: this is an individual draft that was adopted by the working group; draft #1 was published in March and looks pretty active
#magicdomid1641
#magicdomid821
#magicdomid1642
#magicdomid411
#magicdomid1643
#magicdomid822
#magicdomid1644
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-rtcweb-ip-handling/
#magicdomid1645
#magicdomid823
#magicdomid1646
#magicdomid412
#magicdomid1647
#magicdomid824
#magicdomid1648
Mark: This has a nice slot on the agenda next week for day 1.
#magicdomid1649
#magicdomid825
#magicdomid1650
#magicdomid413
#magicdomid1651
#magicdomid826
#magicdomid1652
Mark: I can go to that session and listen in.
#magicdomid1653
#magicdomid827
#magicdomid1654
#magicdomid414
#magicdomid1655
#magicdomid828
#magicdomid1656

#magicdomid1657
#magicdomid829
#magicdomid1658
#magicdomid415
#magicdomid1659
#magicdomid830
#magicdomid1660
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/18 Performance Observer Review
#magicdomid1661
#magicdomid831
#magicdomid1662
#magicdomid416
#magicdomid1663
#magicdomid832
#magicdomid1664
Dan: Alex, this is yours
#magicdomid1665
#magicdomid833
#magicdomid1666
#magicdomid417
#magicdomid1667
#magicdomid834
#magicdomid1668
Alex: I don't believe they're significantly further along than last I looked... although there's an implementation in Mozilla?  I haven't done anything.
#magicdomid1669
#magicdomid835
#magicdomid1670
#magicdomid418
#magicdomid1671
#magicdomid836
#magicdomid1672
Alex: Let me provide a little feedback in this issue; I'll do it now.  Give me 3 minutes.
#magicdomid1673
#magicdomid837
#magicdomid1674
#magicdomid419
#magicdomid1675
#magicdomid838
#magicdomid1676
[ Alex writes, in parallel with following discussion ]
#magicdomid1677
#magicdomid839
#magicdomid1678
#magicdomid420
#magicdomid1679
#magicdomid840
#magicdomid1680
[ ... much later than stuff below ...]
#magicdomid1681
#magicdomid841
#magicdomid1682
#magicdomid421
#magicdomid1683
#magicdomid842
#magicdomid1684
Alex: Invite them to a call?
#magicdomid1685
#magicdomid843
#magicdomid1686
#magicdomid422
#magicdomid1687
#magicdomid844
#magicdomid1688
Alex: Mostly a clean bill of health.
#magicdomid1689
#magicdomid845
#magicdomid1690
#magicdomid423
#magicdomid1691
#magicdomid846
#magicdomid1692
Alex: Ask what they'd like for us to do next?
#magicdomid1693
#magicdomid847
#magicdomid1694
#magicdomid424
#magicdomid1695
#magicdomid848
#magicdomid1696
Peter: Can you do that?  Milestone 2 weeks.
#magicdomid1697
#magicdomid849
#magicdomid1698
#magicdomid425
#magicdomid1699
#magicdomid850
#magicdomid1700
Alex: sure
#magicdomid1701
#magicdomid851
#magicdomid1702
#magicdomid426
#magicdomid1703
#magicdomid852
#magicdomid1704

#magicdomid1705
#magicdomid853
#magicdomid1706
#magicdomid427
#magicdomid1707
#magicdomid854
#magicdomid1708
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/38 Browser Fingerprinting Document
#magicdomid1709
#magicdomid855
#magicdomid1710
#magicdomid428
#magicdomid1711
#magicdomid856
#magicdomid1712
Dan: I think this is closeable.
#magicdomid1713
#magicdomid857
#magicdomid1714
#magicdomid429
#magicdomid1715
#magicdomid858
#magicdomid1716
Dan: I'm assigned to this.  I think we can close for now.  Can reopen if more feedback is requested.
#magicdomid1717
#magicdomid859
#magicdomid1718
#magicdomid430
#magicdomid1719
#magicdomid860
#magicdomid1720
Peter: They published their note and didn't appear to address our feedback.
#magicdomid1721
#magicdomid861
#magicdomid1722
#magicdomid431
#magicdomid1723
#magicdomid862
#magicdomid1724
Dan: We fed that back to them, and they did incorporate more feedback, I think.
#magicdomid1725
#magicdomid863
#magicdomid1726
#magicdomid432
#magicdomid1727
#magicdomid864
#magicdomid1728
Mark: No, we pointed that out, and said they're not done with the document yet, and continuing to revise.
#magicdomid1729
#magicdomid865
#magicdomid1730
#magicdomid433
#magicdomid1731
#magicdomid866
#magicdomid1732
Dan: I wish we'd noted that in the issue...
#magicdomid1733
#magicdomid867
#magicdomid1734
#magicdomid434
#magicdomid1735
#magicdomid868
#magicdomid1736
Mark: I think it was on a call.
#magicdomid1737
#magicdomid869
#magicdomid1738
#magicdomid435
#magicdomid1739
#magicdomid870
#magicdomid1740
Peter: Issue says February 3 call.
#magicdomid1741
#magicdomid871
#magicdomid1742
#magicdomid436
#magicdomid1743
#magicdomid872
#magicdomid1744
Dan: I added some comments/links to the issue.
#magicdomid1745
#magicdomid873
#magicdomid1746
#magicdomid437
#magicdomid1747
#magicdomid874
#magicdomid1748

#magicdomid1749
#magicdomid875
#magicdomid1750
#magicdomid438
#magicdomid1751
#magicdomid876
#magicdomid1752
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/42 CSP
#magicdomid1753
#magicdomid877
#magicdomid1754
#magicdomid439
#magicdomid1755
#magicdomid878
#magicdomid1756
Mark: I own a review of what they're doing.  Been tracking it, want to have another look.  Generally they're doing good stuff.
#magicdomid1757
#magicdomid879
#magicdomid1758
#magicdomid440
#magicdomid1759
#magicdomid880
#magicdomid1760
Peter: want to set a milestone?
#magicdomid1761
#magicdomid881
#magicdomid1762
#magicdomid441
#magicdomid1763
#magicdomid882
#magicdomid1764
Mark: In about a month?
#magicdomid1765
#magicdomid883
#magicdomid1766
#magicdomid442
#magicdomid1767
#magicdomid884
#magicdomid1768
Peter: April 27, can slip if you want.
#magicdomid1769
#magicdomid885
#magicdomid1770
#magicdomid443
#magicdomid1771
#magicdomid886
#magicdomid1772

#magicdomid1773
#magicdomid887
#magicdomid1774
#magicdomid444
#magicdomid1775
#magicdomid888
#magicdomid1776
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/49 Credential Management API
#magicdomid1777
#magicdomid889
#magicdomid1778
#magicdomid445
#magicdomid1779
#magicdomid890
#magicdomid1780
Ttravis: I thought we did a review of this in a teleconference since my last comment.
#magicdomid1781
#magicdomid891
#magicdomid1782
#magicdomid446
#magicdomid1783
#magicdomid892
#magicdomid1784
Peter: I thought we talked about in Melbourne
#magicdomid1785
#magicdomid893
#magicdomid1786
#magicdomid447
#magicdomid1787
#magicdomid894
#magicdomid1788
*Yves leaves*
#magicdomid1789
#magicdomid895
#magicdomid1790
#magicdomid448
#magicdomid1791
#magicdomid896
#magicdomid1792
Travis: He asked us to compare what FIDO has with what's incredential management, shared types
#magicdomid1793
#magicdomid897
#magicdomid1794
#magicdomid449
#magicdomid1795
#magicdomid898
#magicdomid1796
Travis: I thought Google requested review of it because they were going to ship it
#magicdomid1797
#magicdomid899
#magicdomid1798
#magicdomid450
#magicdomid1799
#magicdomid900
#magicdomid1800
Alex: At the FIDO meeting they'd delayed processing any of the feedback until the W3C switch, and then they'll mass-import the issues and go over it
#magicdomid1801
#magicdomid901
#magicdomid1802
#magicdomid451
#magicdomid1803
#magicdomid902
#magicdomid1804
Travis: Ping FIDO again?
#magicdomid1805
#magicdomid903
#magicdomid1806
#magicdomid452
#magicdomid1807
#magicdomid904
#magicdomid1808
Alex: Prefer setting future milestone over closing.
#magicdomid1809
#magicdomid905
#magicdomid1810
#magicdomid453
#magicdomid1811
#magicdomid906
#magicdomid1812
Travis: 2 months?
#magicdomid1813
#magicdomid907
#magicdomid1814
#magicdomid454
#magicdomid1815
#magicdomid908
#magicdomid1816
Peter: end of May
#magicdomid1817
#magicdomid909
#magicdomid1818
#magicdomid455
#magicdomid1819
#magicdomid910
#magicdomid1820

#magicdomid1821
#magicdomid911
#magicdomid1822
#magicdomid456
#magicdomid1823
#magicdomid912
#magicdomid1824
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/53 contributing.md document needed for TAG reviews
#magicdomid1825
#magicdomid913
#magicdomid1826
#magicdomid457
#magicdomid1827
#magicdomid914
#magicdomid1828
Peter: Dan?
#magicdomid1829
#magicdomid915
#magicdomid1830
#magicdomid458
#magicdomid1831
#magicdomid916
#magicdomid1832
Dan: We have a readme.  I think we can close it.
#magicdomid1833
#magicdomid917
#magicdomid1834
#magicdomid459
#magicdomid1835
#magicdomid918
#magicdomid1836
David: I don't think it answers those questions, though.
#magicdomid1837
#magicdomid919
#magicdomid1838
#magicdomid460
#magicdomid1839
#magicdomid920
#magicdomid1840
Dan: I'm editing it to include those issues, suggest we close the issue.
#magicdomid1841
#magicdomid921
#magicdomid1842
#magicdomid461
#magicdomid1843
#magicdomid922
#magicdomid1844
Peter: works for me
#magicdomid1845
#magicdomid923
#magicdomid1846
#magicdomid462
#magicdomid1847
#magicdomid924
#magicdomid1848

#magicdomid1849
#magicdomid925
#magicdomid1850
#magicdomid463
#magicdomid1851
#magicdomid926
#magicdomid1852
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/61
#magicdomid1853
#magicdomid927
#magicdomid1854
#magicdomid464
#magicdomid1855
#magicdomid928
#magicdomid1856
Travis: Done, waiting for [...] requesters.  This was group asking for privacy mode information, so we might have something soon we can relay to them, guidelines for what they could consider including in the spec.
#magicdomid1857
#magicdomid929
#magicdomid1858
#magicdomid465
#magicdomid1859
#magicdomid930
#magicdomid1860
Mark: Would be great to get their feedback.
#magicdomid1861
#magicdomid931
#magicdomid1862
#magicdomid466
#magicdomid1863
#magicdomid932
#magicdomid1864
Travis: I moved the milestone to next week so I can take care of that quickly and report back.
#magicdomid1865
#magicdomid933
#magicdomid1866
#magicdomid467
#magicdomid1867
#magicdomid934
#magicdomid1868

#magicdomid1869
#magicdomid935
#magicdomid1870
#magicdomid468
#magicdomid1871
#magicdomid936
#magicdomid1872
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/64 cross-spec device identification
#magicdomid1873
#magicdomid937
#magicdomid1874
#magicdomid469
#magicdomid1875
#magicdomid938
#magicdomid1876
Travis: This bleeds from WebRTC identifying camera devices etc., spans across bluetooth, NFC, USB.  Scenarios where we want to identify device information.
#magicdomid1877
#magicdomid939
#magicdomid1878
#magicdomid470
#magicdomid1879
#magicdomid940
#magicdomid1880
Dan: Discussed in Melbourne.  Adding ??? principles to the existing design principles doc.
#magicdomid1881
#magicdomid941
#magicdomid1882
#magicdomid471
#magicdomid1883
#magicdomid942
#magicdomid1884
Travis: I don't think that happened.
#magicdomid1885
#magicdomid943
#magicdomid1886
#magicdomid472
#magicdomid1887
#magicdomid944
#magicdomid1888
Travis: I think I want to move out a few weeks, maybe April 27 telecon.  I will probably do a pull request on Dominic's API design doc and we can loop in folks on the issue and see if we can come to a good...
#magicdomid1889
#magicdomid945
#magicdomid1890
#magicdomid473
#magicdomid1891
#magicdomid946
#magicdomid1892
Alex: Do we have advice?
#magicdomid1893
#magicdomid947
#magicdomid1894
#magicdomid474
#magicdomid1895
#magicdomid948
#magicdomid1896
Travis: I Think we had discussion in Melbourne, plus some thoughts from before Melbourne.   I want to write it down as a pull request and go from there.
#magicdomid1897
#magicdomid949
#magicdomid1898
#magicdomid475
#magicdomid1899
#magicdomid950
#magicdomid1900
Alex: Let's take some time now.
#magicdomid1901
#magicdomid951
#magicdomid1902
#magicdomid476
#magicdomid1903
#magicdomid952
#magicdomid1904
[ network glitch ]
#magicdomid1905
#magicdomid953
#magicdomid1906
#magicdomid477
#magicdomid1907
#magicdomid954
#magicdomid1908
[ working on issue ]
#magicdomid1909
#magicdomid955
#magicdomid1910
#magicdomid478
#magicdomid1911
#magicdomid956
#magicdomid1912
Travis: 
#magicdomid1913
#magicdomid957
#magicdomid1914
#magicdomid479
#magicdomid1915
#magicdomid958
#magicdomid1916

#magicdomid1917
#magicdomid959
#magicdomid1918
#magicdomid480
#magicdomid1919
#magicdomid960
#magicdomid1920
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/70
#magicdomid1921
#magicdomid961
#magicdomid1922
#magicdomid481
#magicdomid1923
#magicdomid962
#magicdomid1924
David: oops, I should look over responses and get back to you
#magicdomid1925
#magicdomid963
#magicdomid1926
#magicdomid482
#magicdomid1927
#magicdomid964
#magicdomid1928
Peter: 2 weeks?
#magicdomid1929
#magicdomid965
#magicdomid1930
#magicdomid483
#magicdomid1931
#magicdomid966
#magicdomid1932
David: sure
#magicdomid1933
#magicdomid967
#magicdomid1934
#magicdomid484
#magicdomid1935
#magicdomid968
#magicdomid1936

#magicdomid1937
#magicdomid969
#magicdomid1938
#magicdomid485
#magicdomid1939
#magicdomid970
#magicdomid1940
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/89 geofencing
#magicdomid1941
#magicdomid971
#magicdomid1942
#magicdomid486
#magicdomid1943
#magicdomid972
#magicdomid1944
Hadley: We last left that we were concerned with use cases -- looking back to minutes from November.
#magicdomid1945
#magicdomid973
#magicdomid1946
#magicdomid487
#magicdomid1947
#magicdomid974
#magicdomid1948
Peter: Think we discussed in Melbourne.
#magicdomid1949
#magicdomid975
#magicdomid1950
#magicdomid488
#magicdomid1951
#magicdomid976
#magicdomid1952
Alex: Why u no explainer?
#magicdomid1953
#magicdomid977
#magicdomid1954
#magicdomid489
#magicdomid1955
#magicdomid978
#magicdomid1956
Hadley: very small group taking on really big task
#magicdomid1957
#magicdomid979
#magicdomid1958
#magicdomid490
#magicdomid1959
#magicdomid980
#magicdomid1960
Alex: THat's pretty common, but...
#magicdomid1961
#magicdomid981
#magicdomid1962
#magicdomid491
#magicdomid1963
#magicdomid982
#magicdomid1964
Hadley: There's a link to November telecon minutes without a discussion...
#magicdomid1965
#magicdomid983
#magicdomid1966
#magicdomid492
#magicdomid1967
#magicdomid984
#magicdomid1968
Alex: There's mentions of the Permissions API, but there doesn't seem to be a Geofence permission reflected in the API yet.
#magicdomid1969
#magicdomid985
#magicdomid1970
#magicdomid493
#magicdomid1971
#magicdomid986
#magicdomid1972
Hadley: Issue #1 says should mention.
#magicdomid1973
#magicdomid987
#magicdomid1974
#magicdomid494
#magicdomid1975
#magicdomid988
#magicdomid1976
Hadley: I remember now -- in Melbourne, we checked in with them, and they said they hadn't done any work on it.
#magicdomid1977
#magicdomid989
#magicdomid1978
#magicdomid495
#magicdomid1979
#magicdomid990
#magicdomid1980
Alex: So we'll come back to it when they ping us?
#magicdomid1981
#magicdomid991
#magicdomid1982
#magicdomid496
#magicdomid1983
#magicdomid992
#magicdomid1984
Peter: Milestone to next face-to-face?
#magicdomid1985
#magicdomid993
#magicdomid1986
#magicdomid497
#magicdomid1987
#magicdomid994
#magicdomid1988

#magicdomid1989
#magicdomid995
#magicdomid1990
#magicdomid498
#magicdomid1991
#magicdomid996
#magicdomid1992
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/63
#magicdomid1993
#magicdomid997
#magicdomid1994
#magicdomid499
#magicdomid1995
#magicdomid998
#magicdomid1996
Alex: Explainer, yay.
#magicdomid1997
#magicdomid999
#magicdomid1998
#magicdomid500
#magicdomid1999
#magicdomid1000
#magicdomid2000
Alex: There's a reference to a Mozilla a11y doc... Alex Surkov... moved to WICG, with Marcos.
#magicdomid2001
#magicdomid1001
#magicdomid2002
#magicdomid501
#magicdomid2003
#magicdomid1002
#magicdomid2004
Alex: I'm trying to understand the overlap between this Accessibility API proposal and the script accessibility thing.
#magicdomid2005
#magicdomid1003
#magicdomid2006
#magicdomid502
#magicdomid2007
#magicdomid1004
#magicdomid2008
Alex: This is fascinating.
#magicdomid2009
#magicdomid1005
#magicdomid2010
#magicdomid503
#magicdomid2011
#magicdomid1006
#magicdomid2012
Alex: This looks very much like an extensibility mechanism for ARIA.
#magicdomid2013
#magicdomid1007
#magicdomid2014
#magicdomid504
#magicdomid2015
#magicdomid1008
#magicdomid2016
Alex: It has the behavior of being a fallback for a request for ARIA data on an element.  If there isn't ARIA data on an element it sends this event which you can handle programatically to respond, which is really cool.
#magicdomid2017
#magicdomid1009
#magicdomid2018
#magicdomid505
#magicdomid2019
#magicdomid1010
#magicdomid2020
Alex: User intention events are sort of a recycled concept here from other proposals like Indie UI.  But this doesn't seem to come with a list of predefined intention events the same way that Indie UI did.  Also, the ARIA async thing is fundamentally new.  It says there's going to be content here, but it isn't here now, and I'll let you know when it is.
#magicdomid2021
#magicdomid1011
#magicdomid2022
#magicdomid506
#magicdomid2023
#magicdomid1012
#magicdomid2024
Alex: There's a question about extent to which virtualizing only a portion of the view -- creating elements, managing and loading data, virtualize loading behaviors through event delegation -- seems like it's crying out for something less like ARIA async and more like content async, and then have ARIA participate in that.
#magicdomid2025
#magicdomid1013
#magicdomid2026
#magicdomid507
#magicdomid2027
#magicdomid1014
#magicdomid2028
Alex: But otherwise this is super cool.
#magicdomid2029
#magicdomid1015
#magicdomid2030
#magicdomid508
#magicdomid2031
#magicdomid1016
#magicdomid2032
Dan: Can that be captured in the issue?
#magicdomid2033
#magicdomid1017
#magicdomid2034
#magicdomid509
#magicdomid2035
#magicdomid1018
#magicdomid2036
Dan: Can we develop that into a consensus view that we could close the issue on?
#magicdomid2037
#magicdomid1019
#magicdomid2038
#magicdomid510
#magicdomid2039
#magicdomid1020
#magicdomid2040
Alex: Let me type up my response and then...
#magicdomid2041
#magicdomid1021
#magicdomid2042
#magicdomid511
#magicdomid2043
#magicdomid1022
#magicdomid2044
Alex: I'll say roughly that it feels like 3 or 4 things at once, might be good to separate.  All feel productive.  SPecifically interesting is last chance ARIA behavior with ability to handle event.  I think open questions about impact on performance of potentially bubbling those events.  Do they bubble?  If they don't bubble, easier to think about.  Even capture phase alone, deep down, may cause performance concern, b/c you may have to traverse all the way down DOM every time event handler registered.  But the ability to have programmatic ability to respond for ARIA roles and states without having to set them in the DOM a priori is pretty great.
#magicdomid2045
#magicdomid1023
#magicdomid2046
#magicdomid512
#magicdomid2047
#magicdomid1024
#magicdomid2048
Dan: Seems a bit odd that we didn't touch on this this morning.  Neither Chaals or Leonie mentioned this.
#magicdomid2049
#magicdomid1025
#magicdomid2050
#magicdomid513
#magicdomid2051
#magicdomid1026
#magicdomid2052
Alex: Lack of socialization?  Happy to cc: them into the bug.
#magicdomid2053
#magicdomid1027
#magicdomid2054
#magicdomid514
#magicdomid2055
#magicdomid1028
#magicdomid2056

#magicdomid2057
#magicdomid1029
#magicdomid2058
#magicdomid515
#magicdomid2059
#magicdomid1030
#magicdomid2060
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/66
#magicdomid2061
#magicdomid1031
#magicdomid2062
#magicdomid516
#magicdomid2063
#magicdomid1032
#magicdomid2064
Peter: I bumped the date on that one
#magicdomid2065
#magicdomid1033
#magicdomid2066
#magicdomid517
#magicdomid2067
#magicdomid1034
#magicdomid2068

#magicdomid2069
#magicdomid1035
#magicdomid2070
#magicdomid518
#magicdomid2071
#magicdomid1036
#magicdomid2072
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/71 CSS font display
#magicdomid2073
#magicdomid1037
#magicdomid2074
#magicdomid519
#magicdomid2075
#magicdomid1038
#magicdomid2076
Alex: spec hasn't changed.  Close it, and ask Tab to ask if he wants more feedback.
#magicdomid2077
#magicdomid1039
#magicdomid2078
#magicdomid520
#magicdomid2079
#magicdomid1040
#magicdomid2080
Peter: Remember discussed a long time ago in CSS; don't remember where it left off.
#magicdomid2081
#magicdomid1041
#magicdomid2082
#magicdomid521
#magicdomid2083
#magicdomid1042
#magicdomid2084

#magicdomid2085
#magicdomid1043
#magicdomid2086
#magicdomid522
#magicdomid2087
#magicdomid1044
#magicdomid2088

#magicdomid2089
#magicdomid1045
#magicdomid2090
#magicdomid523
#magicdomid2091
#magicdomid1046
#magicdomid2092
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/72
#magicdomid2093
#magicdomid1047
#magicdomid2094
#magicdomid524
#magicdomid2095
#magicdomid1048
#magicdomid2096
Peter: Is this a duplicate?  We talked about this yesterday or the day before...
#magicdomid2097
#magicdomid1049
#magicdomid2098
#magicdomid525
#magicdomid2099
#magicdomid1050
#magicdomid2100
David: That was when we went through unassigned issues.
#magicdomid2101
#magicdomid1051
#magicdomid2102
#magicdomid526
#magicdomid2103
#magicdomid1052
#magicdomid2104

#magicdomid2105
#magicdomid1053
#magicdomid2106
#magicdomid527
#magicdomid2107
#magicdomid1054
#magicdomid2108
David: Also, I feel like I should take some issues; I didn't do that when we went through unassigned issues...
#magicdomid2109
#magicdomid1055
#magicdomid2110
#magicdomid528
#magicdomid2111
#magicdomid1056
#magicdomid2112
(dbaron takes 72 and 1?? on WebUSB)
#magicdomid2113
#magicdomid1057
#magicdomid2114
#magicdomid529
#magicdomid2115
#magicdomid1058
#magicdomid2116

#magicdomid2117
#magicdomid1059
#magicdomid2118
#magicdomid530
#magicdomid2119
#magicdomid1060
#magicdomid2120
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/73 secure stop
#magicdomid2121
#magicdomid1061
#magicdomid2122
#magicdomid531
#magicdomid2123
#magicdomid1062
#magicdomid2124
Alex: Travis and I talked about this over dinner.
#magicdomid2125
#magicdomid1063
#magicdomid2126
#magicdomid532
#magicdomid2127
#magicdomid1064
#magicdomid2128
Alex: People seem to have read all possible positions into the feedback we provided last.
#magicdomid2129
#magicdomid1065
#magicdomid2130
#magicdomid533
#magicdomid2131
#magicdomid1066
#magicdomid2132
Alex: We agreed I'd take a stab at "You misunderstood us, this is weird and a bigger fishing expedition than you thought, so we think it'll take years to specify this sanely.  So please don't include this in your spec."  Does this sound reasonable to others?
#magicdomid2133
#magicdomid1067
#magicdomid2134
#magicdomid534
#magicdomid2135
#magicdomid1068
#magicdomid2136
Alex: OK, I'll start typing this into github...  [ probably worded better than scribe captured on previous line! ]
#magicdomid2137
#magicdomid1069
#magicdomid2138
#magicdomid535
#magicdomid2139
#magicdomid1070
#magicdomid2140

#magicdomid2141
#magicdomid1071
#magicdomid2142
#magicdomid536
#magicdomid2143
#magicdomid1072
#magicdomid2144
Dan: Also is the "in progress" label in this repo meaningful?  Isn't everything?  Should I just delete the label?
#magicdomid2145
#magicdomid1073
#magicdomid2146
#magicdomid537
#magicdomid2147
#magicdomid1074
#magicdomid2148
David: beyond assigned and unassigned?
#magicdomid2149
#magicdomid1075
#magicdomid2150
#magicdomid538
#magicdomid2151
#magicdomid1076
#magicdomid2152
Andrew: Label is creating work; seems work is not worth doing.
#magicdomid2153
#magicdomid1077
#magicdomid2154
#magicdomid539
#magicdomid2155
#magicdomid1078
#magicdomid2156
[ discussion about "duplicate" and "valid" labels as not useful either ]
#magicdomid2157
#magicdomid1079
#magicdomid2158
#magicdomid540
#magicdomid2159
#magicdomid1080
#magicdomid2160
[ Dan labels his meta-issue as "quantum-issue" ]
#magicdomid2161
#magicdomid1081
#magicdomid2162
#magicdomid541
#magicdomid2163
#magicdomid1082
#magicdomid2164

#magicdomid2165
#magicdomid1083
#magicdomid2166
#magicdomid542
#magicdomid2167
#magicdomid1084
#magicdomid2168
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/74 unblocking HTTPS transitions
#magicdomid2169
#magicdomid1085
#magicdomid2170
#magicdomid543
#magicdomid2171
#magicdomid1086
#magicdomid2172
Mark: we talked about this in Melbourne
#magicdomid2173
#magicdomid1087
#magicdomid2174
#magicdomid544
#magicdomid2175
#magicdomid1088
#magicdomid2176
Mark: Brad doesn't have time to work on this more, and we don't have any implementor interest expressed yet.  There was a lot of concern expressed about the complexity of this approach, and as Mike ...
#magicdomid2177
#magicdomid1089
#magicdomid2178
#magicdomid545
#magicdomid2179
#magicdomid1090
#magicdomid2180
[discussion about status]
#magicdomid2181
#magicdomid1091
#magicdomid2182
#magicdomid546
#magicdomid2183
#magicdomid1092
#magicdomid2184
Mark: As Mike says, HSTS priming is something with significantly more implementor interest and easier to think about.  He's coediting this with Richard.  I can talk to Richard next week at IETF about where they're at with this, and ping Mike as well.
#magicdomid2185
#magicdomid1093
#magicdomid2186
#magicdomid547
#magicdomid2187
#magicdomid1094
#magicdomid2188
Peter: Milestone?
#magicdomid2189
#magicdomid1095
#magicdomid2190
#magicdomid548
#magicdomid2191
#magicdomid1096
#magicdomid2192
Mark: 2 weeks?
#magicdomid2193
#magicdomid1097
#magicdomid2194
#magicdomid549
#magicdomid2195
#magicdomid1098
#magicdomid2196

#magicdomid2197
#magicdomid1099
#magicdomid2198
#magicdomid550
#magicdomid2199
#magicdomid1100
#magicdomid2200
Mark: Cancel next week's call?
#magicdomid2201
#magicdomid1101
#magicdomid2202
#magicdomid551
#magicdomid2203
#magicdomid1102
#magicdomid2204
[ multiple people can't make the call ]
#magicdomid2205
#magicdomid1103
#magicdomid2206
#magicdomid552
#magicdomid2207
#magicdomid1104
#magicdomid2208
agree to cancel next week's call
#magicdomid2209
#magicdomid1105
#magicdomid2210
#magicdomid553
#magicdomid2211
#magicdomid1106
#magicdomid2212

#magicdomid2213
#magicdomid1107
#magicdomid2214
#magicdomid554
#magicdomid2215
#magicdomid1108
#magicdomid2216
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/76 with credentials flag
#magicdomid2217
#magicdomid1109
#magicdomid2218
#magicdomid555
#magicdomid2219
#magicdomid1110
#magicdomid2220
Mark: we discussed this at this meeting.  Where did we leave that?
#magicdomid2221
#magicdomid1111
#magicdomid2222
#magicdomid556
#magicdomid2223
#magicdomid1112
#magicdomid2224
Dan: Tim was going to respond to... reviewing Jonas's comment .
#magicdomid2225
#magicdomid1113
#magicdomid2226
#magicdomid557
#magicdomid2227
#magicdomid1114
#magicdomid2228
Tim: I had a response to his original message.  Should I not send it before reading the whole thread?
#magicdomid2229
#magicdomid1115
#magicdomid2230
#magicdomid558
#magicdomid2231
#magicdomid1116
#magicdomid2232
Tim: I'm looking at the message in Drafts... and just deleted it by accident since it's not editable by default.
#magicdomid2233
#magicdomid1117
#magicdomid2234
#magicdomid559
#magicdomid2235
#magicdomid1118
#magicdomid2236

#magicdomid2237
#magicdomid1119
#magicdomid2238
#magicdomid560
#magicdomid2239
#magicdomid1120
#magicdomid2240
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/77 security questionnaire
#magicdomid2241
#magicdomid1121
#magicdomid2242
#magicdomid561
#magicdomid2243
#magicdomid1122
#magicdomid2244
Mark: Dan?
#magicdomid2245
#magicdomid1123
#magicdomid2246
#magicdomid562
#magicdomid2247
#magicdomid1124
#magicdomid2248
Dan: Give me a sec, responding to issue 112.
#magicdomid2249
#magicdomid1125
#magicdomid2250
#magicdomid563
#magicdomid2251
#magicdomid1126
#magicdomid2252
Mark: I think we can sit on this until Stockholm; we can see how people use it before revisiting.
David: Should bikeshed warning link to it?
Peter: I have a note to submit PR for that, will do in next few days.
Tim: If there were a "Legal Issues" section, we could have the questionnare for that too.
Mark: We don't want to talk about the law, but could talk about policy implications of specifications.
Hadley: We talked about at lunch:  legal to-do list:  we've gone this far, but we're not covering these things.
Tim: Does this spec have behavior that could harm society.
Hadley: e.g., spam
Tim: ... fraud
?: "Societal Implications"?
Mark: We did get some questions on the security questionnare repo
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/84
Alex: I think Josh's response is reasonable.  I'd like Domenic's view on iteration.  I will ask him about it.
Peter: Milestone?
Alex: next call

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/76 again
Tim: shows draft reply to Jonas reflecting discussion
Peter: I think that reflects what we discussed
David: I think I disagree with (a), but I think it reflects Tim's point of view

ADJOURNED

TOPIC: Update our homepage






