TAG teleconference - 17 Feb 2016

Present: Dan, David, Hadley, Peter, Travis, Alex
Regrets: Andrew

--
		* TV Control https://www.w3.org/2016/02/tvcontrol.html (we are controling the horizontal, we are controling the vertical - via the web!)
		* The Website Update (Mark)
		* Dated Space (Dan)
		* FIDO (Travis) - 
		* Notifications API (Alex)
		* confirm teleconference time for next week?
		* Stockholm F2F Arrangements
		* Big issues?

---

Scribe: Alex

FIDO: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/97
Travis: in Melbourne we dropped our notes into the issue, wanted to review with FIDO folk when the WG is started -- which was just approved this past week -- and we added some specific notes. E.g., why use ETLD+1 instead of origin? We also added some folks from the FIDO community to the issue (who replied on eTLD+1). 
<history lesson>
Travis: at the bottom we have someone from Google who argued for eTLD+1. Origin would block sharing of auth material.
Dan: this seems rather arbitrary to me. What was Anne's position?
Travis: wanted origins; eTLD+1 hae only been applied to Cookies and document.domain and we've been able to restrict it to those for a long time. Don't want to increase the # of systems that use it.
Dan: there's also a new comment; we've talked a lot about the importance of SOP. It feels arbitrary to say here "we don't need SOP here because we can do eTLD+1"; feels like bending standards to meet the needs of a single company.
Travis: I don't think you're wrong. A change like this would motivate a company to perhaps re-work their origin setup; e.g. moving maps.google.com to google.com/maps. The risk is that you're putting all your eggs in a single basket. A single compromise there can pwn everything. You'll need to individually auth to each property vs. once. What Microsoft does is to use a federated system like OpenID. These systems do redirects and then log me in.
Dan: wouldn't some sort of CSP-like description make more sense? So that then you could...
Travis: so use CSP to say "these are related, please share credentials?"
Alex: I wonder if there is another system for delegating authentication? CSP is one, Iframe sandbox is another.
Dan: I wonder if there is another option. Some way to use a policy language to configure this. 
Travis: This is starting to sound like our withCredentials discussion ;-|
Dan: other thoughts?
Travis: I'm not sure we're prepared to talk about this on the call? Perhaps it would be better to put a real action item together.
Dan: ok, punt to a future call? Perhaps with a more informed discussion?
Travis: want to punt to London so we can discuss F2F
Alex: I'd like to make sure we also understand permissions delegation. Will chat to our security folks about that.
Travis: it also seems like this is somethign we should understand with regards to other origins?
Alex: well, this is about attestation about a specific actor (domain, eTLD+1) and hardware tokens challenges; these will need to be derivitive assertions.
[punted to london]

Notifications API - https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/94
Alex: I've reviewed it recently, but haven't written anything up yet. May need to bump this to next week. (-> 2/24/2016 -- later half of the call)
Alex: There's a lot of history here... an API that was just strings, and API that was just web content. An API in the document is pretty static. W3C content has moved to WHATWG... Notification API in Service Workers has been extended...
... We reviewed permissions API last year, notification API now plugs in nicely.
... The old notifications API we need to think about this some more. Lots of legacy stuff here. There's a question about consistency -- the extent to which we can drive any -- and the general question of API design for use in the background vs. the foreground.
[punted to next week]
(note, Alex won't be able to make it until the second half of next week's call)

Mark's topics:
    TV
    Website update
    
Dated Space https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/102
Alex: happy to restructure to put the reviews first. - I can do that.
<note: the TAG works for Tobie Langel's approval>

Topic: call times
call is 2 hours later starting next week to accomodate Tokyo time
 the caldav feed is truth: https://cal.w3ctag.org/public.php/tag/calendar.ics
Dan: means we're now 10pm LON, 11pm for France.
<discussion of caldav feed time zone pinning>

Topic: logistics
Dan: trying to get us a room for the dev meetup, hopefully at the same location. Hopefully that'll be set within the week.
Alex: might be able to find an alternate.
Stockholm: 28-30 July.

Topic: what next?
Dan: what's the next thing we should be bringing to the table for London?
<cars? tvs? flying cars? flying tvs?>
Alex: Streams?
Dan: data on the web?
Hadley: would like that. Would like to get from a place where data is a thing you have to catalog to a situation where data is something that falls out of the crawl that the rest of the web benefits from.
Hadley: catalogs feel like the geocities of data.
Dan: I've had that experience too. Startups are asking me what data sets they can use. I'll do a search, find some, might know some, etc. Feels like a real problem.
Hadley: this does feel ridiculous.
Dan: seems somewhat related to schema.org and W3C?
Alex: i agree this is importnat - one thing we've discussed in the browser community is where do we find the new elements we need - new semantics - long term web semantics - this is related
[some in-progress work by Hadley on this from TPAC]
David: there were some issues around DAP API vs. REST API styles as it realted to automotive was interesting to me
Travis: also, from melbourne I was also concerned about the security and IoT things we discussed
Dan: Brian wants us to discuss credentials further
Travis: has Tim been busy recenty? Has been a while since we discussed with him. He'll be in London?
Dan: yes.
Dan: I also have a pending action to split the issue we were discussing on this topic

https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/76

<signoff>
