W3C TAG Teleconference - 13 July 2016

Present: Peter, Mark, Hadley, Travis, David, Andrew

Regrets: Alex

mnot: regrets for next week

What Feedback to they want before they go to CR?
Tabled for this week.
(Please help with Scribing...connection is very spotty. Chrome is chewing up 90% of my CPU)
topic:Web Payments response to the Security and privacy questionnaire

mnot:  I'll take an action to look at this properly
hadley: Great. Looks like normative references to PCI DSS. Can we ask them if there are any implications for privacy there, or for the architecture of the web?
plinss:  Makes sense they'd have to worry about industry standards.


topic: Stockholm agenda
plinss:  ideas?
travis: I was taking another look at the TV subsetting of HTML, which we discussed in London. This has all raised more questions for me, which makes it a good topic for discussion. Especially: what happens inf you put the web platform on these TVs and they choose to subset parts of specs or not to implement significant features.  Do those features HAVE to be in the web platform?  If not, are these TVs full user agents?
...Impetus:  massive network of telecommunications and devices out there whose purpose is to be a tv but to run media-related apps. They want to use the Web as a substrate for deployment and execution, but they may not need appcache, or some other feature. If they choose not to implement those, is that harmful for the web? 
...Worth taking up in Stockholm?
hadley: I would think so.
plinss: Like the TV profile of CSS... doesn't preclude them from doing more, but it acts as guidance for authors on what to expect in those enivorments.
travis: the people who use those capabilities and the people who produce content that use those capabilites... the ecosystem works togehter in a natural and evolutionary way.
pliss: there have been devices like that that build in web capabilities but never expect you to surf.
travis: like automobiles.
travis:  Accessibility? 
plinss: yes
plinss: Also we talked about inviting Chris Wilson and Marcos... for the incubator community group.  Finding out more about what's going on there. 
... Other folks to invite?
travis: I posted a message to Web Platform WG on Monday saying we wanted to publish a web IDL v1, and explained what v1 went.  Then got onto publishing snapshots and living specifications.  Not sure if it's a TAG issue, but it keeps coming up.
hadley: I have plenty of opinions on that; happy to discuss.
mnot:  Re HTTP workhop: will be people in town who could be useful.  If we want an update on Quick, Jana Iyengar will be there too.
Hadley and travis: yes, sounds interesting.
mnot: we're meeting Thursday, Friday and Saturday, yes?
plinss: yes.

topic: Tokyo meeting dates
plinss: Alex had a conflict on the dates we had. So we talked about moving it one week earlier, farther from the IETF meeting.
mnot: I doubt I'd be able to make the week before (the last week of Oct)
andrew: the week before also includes a Japanese public holiday (Thursday)
dbaron: anyone checked Tim's schedule?
plinss: not heard yet.
dbaron: there is also US thanksgiving
mnot: Just heard from Amy -- this could be challenging for Tim's schedule.

topic: Meet the TAG
plinss: It's scheduled; torgo sent out the link and we've all tweeted.
mnot: no prep needed?
plinss: I think so. We might need to prep topics, but that's it.
mnot: TAG dinner in stockholm?
travis: or another escape room event?
plinss: Can look into it. Not sure of concrete plans for dinner.  Think Meet the TAG is 6pn on Thursday. So Friday, TAG dinner or some event? I'll check with Dan and Alex to make sure nothing else is set there.

plinss: regrets for next week. See you all in Stockholm. 
