TAG Teleconf 30 November 2017

Mark, Dan, Peter, Hadley, Andrew, David, Travis, Yves, Tim

Agenda
		* IETF (& QUIC) Update - Mark
		* Proposed Process Improvements - Andrew
		* Polyfill Finding - Andrew
		* Design Principles Issue Triage
		* PaymentRequest.canMakeActivePayment() - David, Travis
		* MediaStream Image Capture - Alex, Travis

https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2016/telecons/11-30-agenda.md

--
Mark: IETF update
QUIC working group met in Seoul - 4 working drafts came out of that - there will be a January 
New working group in IETF for QUIC

Dan: what are the differences between QUIC google and QUIC IETF?

Mark: QUIC in a more primitive state - so probably a lot of feedback will come from the implementer community. Touches multiple parts of the stack.
		many more people participating who didn't participate in HTTP/2
		new people showing up
		early days
		for one thing it will use TLS 1.3.
		http body will be thrown away and start fresh (probably)
		lot of work to do
		right now most activity is by the editors4
		4 docs - core doc; congestion control; how to map TLS for this; http binding
		DNS over QUIC is a possibility

		DNS over http bar bof at HTTP - well attended - a lot of excitement about exposing http API to update DNS records; pushing DNS records to the browser; people talking about tunneling - so more private

Dan: does the http/2 to QUIC transition have fewer implications for web developers (compared to HTTP to HTTP2 tansition)

Mark: yes that is my intuition. We will have already moved to a multiplexing model, etc...
		this all effects network people a lot more than application people
		the goal is to make sure nothing changes for app developers when they move to QUIC

Mark:
	    http working grou[p stuff as well - working on cache digests - way for the browser to tell the server what it has in cache  - to optimise server push
	working on client hints ...
	still working on the key header... selective content negotiations
	working on opportunistic security - that is just finishing up. mozilla is still the only implementer - will be an experimental RFC
	cloudflare had good experience with it 
	[discussion on opportunistic encryption]

Tim:
	    discussion about URIs for ontologies, schemas... 
	schemas at well known URLs
	these are http
	suppose you want to make those secure - if you want to make it difficult to tweak schema in transit
	you could redirect to https or [use opportunistic]
	
Mark:
	    the other potential approach is hsts priming - you do a test to the server and then change all links to https
	also: we had a discussion on how to creat http headers
	need for best practices
	something we need to do... current process doesn't scale well
	another proposal on cookies: any cookie beyond a session cookie not sent over a secure channel is allowed to be dropped - a cookie sent over http is a security / privacy risk

Topic: 
	andrew's proposed process improvements
		https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S3MBNuy1C350AbFTVBibo4wBIKGcGWYveKOJHJcC28c/edit#heading=h.82y0iniwhpzs
	Andrew: this google doc outlines a few basic process suggestions [for TGA]
	Suggest we give everyone an action to read this and comment...

Topic: Polyfill Finding
	Andrew: I haven't made sig changes but we have comments particularly from  Domenic
	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u9VgjkPFBgaZE_4xeNCqgF-YReedkTfgXn1WRwmdGFU/edit#heading=h.jhe8z8g8rza2
	[discussions around comments on this document]
	
	discussion on what the criteria should be - signals - agreement to make "w3c" more general - not w3c specific; consensus to keep "consensus" but to define a bit more strongly; agreement to keep point 2 (interoperable implementations)

Travis:
	    we believe multiple implementation is a core principle
	
Tim:
	    Yes -
	
[discussion on whether polyfills which register the same name as the native feature, include code to detect a native implementation, and if one exists, defer to it. ]


