Present: dka, Hadley, David, Andrew, mnot, Yves, Alex ,Peter, Tim

https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2016/telecons/03-16-agenda.md

Chair: DKA
Scribe: David

dka: Leonie Watson asked us to discuss in London: 
    ... and would like to join us on Thursday
    ... to discuss ARIA
    ... I'll open an issue in the spec-reviews repo so we can look at it based on her email
    ... she wanted to get some TAG feedback
alex: I encourage this.  ??? represents the ARIA working group; should give those folks a heads-up too if we're going to be discussing their topic.
dka: I don't know if logistics will let them join us, but will let them know.
Alex: At least let them dial in.
Alex: I expect we'll have a bunch of feedback.

DKA: What in our spec-reviews repo should we be focusing on in London?
Alex: Would like to see us spend time on streams, given architectural implications.  Would be good to deep-dive in a couple of areas; I volunteer streams as one of them.
Alex: I'd also like to spend more quality time on credentials, CORS, and what it takes to build an app on the web (vs. native).
Alex: I think the genesis of a lot of Tim's concern is that it isn't possible to naively build something as you would in a native environment
Alex: CORS + credentials + Tim's concerns
Alex: It's a complicated space, takes a bit to swap all the details back in.  Need to reckon with the details more to come up with a set of recommendations.
Alex: Aside from us this is an unowned space.
DKA: Other things in list: TV control, FIDO, service worker (b/c I know there's another SW face-to-face in April, and I was wondering if there was preview you could give us in London about key issues, or if any opportunity for TAG to be useful in that discussion to help prioritize stuff), keygen, data on the web (hadley)
Alex: wrt keygen I'd like to make sure get an update on that and related thing on FIDO being proposed to W3C and the overlap there.  Maybe invite someone from that WG to talk about use cases it enables and doesn't in relation to keygen
Yves: link on IRC about something that should be related to keygen as well : http://www.ietf.org/id/draft-thomson-http2-client-certs-02.txt
DKA: mnot, opinion?
mnot: having discussion in Buenos Aires week after the TAG meeting about this draft.  Think we're going to adopt it, because people agree having a solution is a good thing.  This is just trying to enable client certs for HTTP2... not a huge evolution in how client certs work.  I don't think it'll get much activity for a long time b/c implementing things dependent on TLS 1.3, and not trivial even when you have TLS 1.3, and implementors don't have resources to focus on it now.  So we'll probably adopt the draft and sit on it for a while.
DKA: worth putting on agenda for London?
mnot: happy to talk about it, but kind of below semantic ... doesn't change the semantics of client certificates.  Doesn't seem useful for TAG to spend much time on it; just enables client certificates in HTTP2.
Hadley: Yves, relation to keygen?
Yves: (explanation)
mnot: relevant since it should change the discussion point that HTTP2 doesn't support client certs

DKA: mnot, work on privacy on agenda for London?
mnot: yeah, got a gist with some scribbles, lightly reviewed by a few people.  Ready for TAG review but not done by any measure.
dka: link from agenda?
mnot: sure, it's in the issue.  https://gist.github.com/mnot/96440a5ca74fcf328d23
mnot: and would love to hear feedback prior to the meeting, too

hadley: if you're listing things left unfinished... in addition to TV control, there's the ongoing discussion about whether we should be encouraging custom device APIs or network architecture and RESTful URIs. Came up under Automotive too.
Alex: important.  And on related note, ATSC, who we last interacted with via hbbTV and OIPF... OIPF a couple years ago ... to specify a subset of the Web platform, hasn't moved forward since then.  New specs being written in TV space that normatively reference that subset.  I had the privilege of reviewing one of those specs the other day.  Might be something where we could come up with a note to send OIPF and hbbTV related to the subsetting.
DKA: Seems weird b/c it feels like the industry heading to more full-featured browsers on TVs, if anything.
Alex: I think they're stuck in a hardware-centric mentality where you ship one binary and it lives forever.
Alex: A bit of a communication mismatch.  We could, at a TAG level, help to smooth over.
DKA: Is there a TAG issue on this already?
Alex: I only brought it up in the context of the issue Hadley raised, which we should discuss this under.
DKA: I'll make an issue so we can track it as well.
Alex: I don't know how far advanced things are, but new specs are being written.  Worth liaison.
Hadley: If we can come up with a principle that applies everywhere, should include that in the scope.
DKA: I'm creating issue 105, assigned to London.

DKA: Hadley, I also added your thing to agenda issue list.  Think it would be useful to talk about in a specific context... otherwise it could become quite philosophical.
Hadley: We need responses for specs... but if we can come up with something philosophically satisfying to pre-empt the discussion the next 15 times it comes up, but worth avoiding making the conversation life, the universe, and everything.
Alex: Maybe worth highlighting specific details of conversation ... like how to design the APIs, or the threat of legacy software that doesn't improve as the platform improves.

DKA: New charters.  There's a WebVR community group that recently chartered.  Automotive charter.  Peter, what's the charter you were talking to Fran√ßois about?
Peter: TV control charter
Andrew: On the WebVR front, have we looked at that spec at all, or just looking at the charter?
DKA: We ought tolook at the spec.  Maybe separate thing about WebVR.
Andrew: from colleagues... had some concerns
Alex: I've also reviewed latest designs internally, happy to provide feedback in public if we can invite them.
DKA: Andrew, can I assign you to that issue? (WebVR spec review)
Andrew: sure
Alex: I'm happy to send you my notes as well.
DKA: I've been touching with this in work I'm doing with Samsung... been agitating to get this work into a community group.  And I know dom is talking about running a workshop later in the year on this topic.  So does feel like something we should be taking a look at.
DKA: Overlap with Hadley's point... when add new capabilities to the Web, how do we do that.

Andrew: Can I also float idea of tinking about ads, and the IAB lean standard?
DKA: ought to
DKA: I think we ought to have a discussion about ads at the TAG meeting b/c isn't there kind of a crisis going on with ads on the Web?
Andrew: yes
Alex: yes
Andrew: Is everyone familiar with IAB's "lean" program? [http://www.iabuk.net/news/iab-uk-launches-principles-to-address-ad-blocking]
Andrew: Light Encrypted Ad-choice-supported non-invasive.  Standards to valiidate that an ad is all of those things.
Andrew: I've had a blog post gestating on the subject.  Prompted by Opera building in ad-blocking by default.
Andrew: A lot of people going straight for a blocking solution, not a great result for the web, b/c it results in workarounds and sidestepping of those blockers.
DKA: And then you end up with blocker blockers...
Andrew: Should come up with guidance that encourages good behavior from relevant actors... if it were supported by browsers, e.g., ad blocking on ads that don't comply with lean guidelines.
Hadley: Definitely think we should talk about this.  Interested in what's in LEAN.  Last weekend digging into Brave... replacing ads on the site you visit, and giving you a share of revenue to invest in sites where you want to not see ads -- trying to create own littie ecosystem on top of the existing web, which I'm still trying to wrap my head around.
DKA: Is there a spec we can review on LEAN?
mnot: a bunch of stuff on the website.  http://www.iab.com/news/lean/
mnot: From TAG perspective, concern once again about fragmentation.  Easy to reduce value of Web both for publishers and end users going down this path.
DKA: Difficult to have these conversations, b/c some people feel strongly that there should be no ads.
DKA: We ran into a lot of those people at initial workshops where DNT was discussed.
DKA: This looks interesting ... centrist ... but what does it have to say about tracking and data?
mnot: There are others who feel they have right to use user's data in all sorts of ways ... needs to be a middle ground.
DKA: Seems to me that user embrace of ad blockers has to do with a number of factors.  Performance.  Data collection.  That surfaces when it comes to practice of ad retargeting, since that's a very visible impact of data collection.  That practice produces bad/creepy UX for people, which leads to people wanting to install ad blockers.
DKA: The other interesting thing I've seen was work of EFF around privacy badger, which seemed to take a more middle-ground approach, to block tracking network that don't respect privacy but will whitelist those that respect privacy.
DKA: I know mixed feelings about DNT, but fits in... b/c one of criteria is whether networks respect DNT setting.
DKA: so, yes, should have wider discussion at London.
DKA: Andrew, willing to lead that?

DKA: Any other suggested agenda items for London?
Yves: If Tim around, should continue discussing fetch/CORS, Tim's issue about that
Tim: would be good to discuss face-to-face
DKA: with-credentials issue
Alex: raised earlier, would like to discuss face-to-face
Alex: I'm happy to bring in other folks to talk through pain points.  Paul Lewis wrote blog post about pain around it.  Have some ideas about how to address it, not fully formed yet.
Tim: lack of error reporting to developer...
Alex: I think there is error reporting if you enable CSP error reporting, should get logs of violatiosn of your policy back to your server
TimBL: I mean logging to the client (console?)
Alex: At least have a conversation with WebAppSec; they may have a mechanism you can use
TimBL: Maybe they improved with error events.  You get an error event but can't tell what it was, CORS or mixed content or something.  You have to just try different things.
TimBL: you don't know ...
DKA: One thing that comes to mind:  Alex you mentioned WebAppSec people joining.  We've had that at past couple of f2fs.
Alex: Let's do that if you have a specific concern.
Alex: I need to research CORS error reporting and report back to this group.
(Alex needs to leave)

DKA: other items?  Already punted streams to face-to-face, which was going to be Travis's agenda item for today.
DKA: Peter, other items?  general Houdini item?
Peter: sure, we could
DKA: Feel free to add stuff or make comments if you come up with new ideas
DKA: I think ... any other business?

Peter: call next week?
DKA: I think we should

Andrew: One thing about survey of event attendees... feedbck from DKA and mnot... yet to integrate and create revised clean draft... could we put on agenda for next time
DKA: I think we should just go ahead and do it.  That way more likelihood that we'll be able to review responses at F2F.
Andrew: mnot are you the one with the button an d the list?
mnot: no, that's DKA
Andrew: Can do a google form, I don't have the list of people we're sending this to
DKA: OK, so I need to go through attendee lists of previous events and generated de-duped master list
DKA: I can do that.

Peter: next week's call right after AC meeting
DKA: maybe scrap call... 
(DKA, Peter, David will be at AC Meeting)  (others?)

TImBL: The CORS... we're being asked to reviewe... same origin policy.  May be... discussion ... maybe we should ... prepared to talk about the whole same-origin policy?
DKA: At face-to-face?
TimBL: yes, or if we meet Web Security people at the AC

