TAG Teleconference in all its awesomeness
https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2017/telcons/03-21-agenda.md

Present: Hadley, David, Dan, Travis, Peter, Sangwhan
Guests: Ilya G. 

Performance/Security/Privacy into our client-side API design principles document  (https://w3ctag.github.io/design-principles/ ).
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/es/120
Ilya: Context on the document: It was in response to discussions in Web Perf WG + Web devs, etc. They wanted to "just enabled it". Of course it was more complicated :-) So, then it evolved into a doc describing what we can and can't expose (and why).

Is there some in-between for recording performance data? What are the tradeoffs that reduce risk? Chrome team did a bunch of work, but it was never transferred back into the doc.

[ There was something here from Ilya about how more data could be exposed from a security / timing attack / cross-domain perspective if the data are aggregated and batched.]

[Spotty connection--please help with notes!]

Dan: We are doing spec reviews and also trying to provide design guidelines that apply to the way how APIs are designed for the modern web
That has surfaced in the document that Travis has been working on, and what we are are thinking about is what additional information can go into it

TAG was founded upon a series of foundings on how the www works and looks
And we are looking into how we can document best practices and principles and share that to the community (including w3c and wider audience)

[Need a TAG SEAL of approval!]

The proposal on the table is to put the information you have into the guidelines
There will be a bit of extra logistics we will need to deal with to get this done


 : - ) [Thanks Sangwhan!]
 
 David: I feel like some of the stuff here is great to be published by webperf
 and it's good to have groups explicitly note the rationale behind a document
 why the webperf group did what it did in the profiling document would be good to have noted
 I feel like linkage between the context and rules would be useful
 
 Ilya: One thing that is missing is general guidance on why we need performance APIs
 When designing APIs having a set of rules to follow would probably help future spec production
[there was something here about reasons groups should integrate with Performance Timeline rather than inventing their own thing]

 Travis: 
      ... to say: if your feature has some sort of performance angle to it, consider integrating with [set of functionality].

Dan: Can what we need be derived from what you already have?

Ilya: Partially
The current document explains why the APIs look like how it is
Rather than why you need a performance API

Travis: If we don't have a issue in the repo, we should open one

Dan: We can start with what we have, and follow up on our next call and F2F
there is consensus that we should be taking care of this, and some material that can be taken
and we will try to iterate on GH after this

[Maybe leave a link to the GH issue when it's open here] :
 
How progressive are we talking here? https://twitter.com/triblondon/status/838965894692757504

Dan: Andrew isn't here, so adjourned for next call

Tim's anti-fake news initiative http://www.bbc.com/news/technology-39246810

Dan: Waiting for Tim's feedback

Process improvements postmortem

Dan: Also Andrew, adjourned

More issue triage?


Private browsing?
(Adjourned for two weeks)

Dev event in tokyo?

Dan: Should be a evening thing
... Thursday or Friday
I'm assuming Saturday would be bad for attendance?
Sangwhan: Well, maybe.  I'll have a chat with @@@@@, who usually do events on weekends. Will report back on Slack.  Ideally Thursday or Friday; after our meeting?
dka: Great. Or Saturday early evening. If we can find a venue that doesn't provide a lot of friction when you arrive, with security and needing to be escorted etc...
...We should assume the format is pretty informal. More like a panel than a more structured thing. We don't have enough time to prepare more.  We can sort the format later; main issue is having a venue.
Sangwhan: So... a free venue or a sponsored venue, right?
dka: yes.  Expecting... usually ~100 people to attend. But — we should take whatever room is available. We've done a room with capacity of 70 before, and 30-40 people showed up.  We weren't working with an existing community though — which should help us get more people.  The last one we did in Japan was about 100. 
...We can use similar description to the event we did in Sept.


Security recommendations for the W3C process: https://blog.lukaszolejnik.com/battery-status-not-included-assessing-privacy-in-w3c-web-standards/ http://lukaszolejnik.com/AssessingPrivacyWebStandardsIWPE17.pdf

