*TAG Teleconference â€“ 18 Apr 2017 ; 15:00 UTC
San Francisco (U.S.A. - California)        Tuesday, 18 Apr 2017, 08:00:00        PDT        UTC-7 hours
Boston (U.S.A. - Massachusetts)        Tuesday, 18 Apr 2017, 11:00:00        EDT        UTC-4 hours
London (United Kingdom - England)        Tuesday, 18 Apr 2017, 16:00:00        BST        UTC+1 hours
Paris (France)        Tuesday, 18 Apr 2017, 17:00:00        CEST        UTC+2 hours
Tokyo (Japan)        Wednesday, 19 Apr 2017, 00:00        JST        UTC+9 hours
Corresponding UTC (GMT)        Tuesday, 18 Apr 2017, 15:00:00

Attending: Dan, Hadley, Alex, Sangwhan, Travis, Andrew

*Call Agenda
	* EME feedback and responses

DKA: There are a lot of parties disagreeing with EME
I don't think that TAG should be taking that position, especially in a sense that we are anti-DRM or anti-EME
Hadley: Think our response should be in the lines of "we hear you, we aren't trying to attack you"
DKA: I would rather say we have no consensus for or against
Andrew: use cases for the web - 2 of the most important ones are advertising and paid content - hence need for EME
Hadley: so how does that apply?
Andrew: you cannot both recognize the important role and at the same time be anti inprinciple fo EME. The principle of providing a mechanism where people can prurchase temp rights to use content
	... seems like it's addressing one of the key use cases for the web.
	... I don't think we'd get 
DKA: I feel it's possible to be pro-EME but be against DRM
and I can understand some businesses would not be interested in putting their content in a environment without DRM
even if DRM will become less and less useful over time, and that it is still breakable
I believe there is a valid use case within the web
Hadley: Much of what I've been seeing is that anti-EME I would actually consider anti-DMCA
Alex: [EME being used outside of browsers - in embedded browsers as well...]
Alex: two browsers have sandboxes that we know of - 
... Mozilla and Chrome (& brave? - anything chromium based should have sandboxing, given that the CDM is there. I don't think Brave ships a CDM - I stand corrected, widevine is included in Brave)
Travis: TAG as champions of openness... ?
Hadley: openness in how things work - I have no problem with paid content - but the mechanisms by which the content is delivered as part of how the web works should be as open as possible.
Alex: TAG could say "We encourage sandboxing."

	* Repo name change

Alex: explaining proposal
Hadley: positive
Travis: positive
Redirects? 
Alex: as long as it's not github pages then everything's fine...

"design review"

	* Keyboard Event 'code' and 'key' - Travis
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/155

Travis: These are amazing. Nothing to do with the fact that I'm an editor. Key spec: defining what the strings are that are presented, keyboard mappings in the OS. Code spec is bout the physical location on the keyboard.  Covers most keyboards.
Alex: multiple keybaords?
Travis: No, a single keyboard. But can handle multiple states (alphanumeric, etc.)
...I posted a few issues, but I think they're good to go.
Alex: If you have an alternative keybaord mapping like dvorak, this will allow you to distinguish form the physical key and the logical key?
Travis: Yes.  Code spec will handle the logical key; key spec will handle the physical key. 
...I request we send them the feedback and close the issue. 
dka: +1
Alex: looks great
<issue closed>

	* Remote Playback API - Sangwhan, Alex, Travis
Sangwhan: This is essential AirPlay in the web browser. HTML video element played back in a different device.
dka: Closed last week... is there further info?
Sangwhan: We didn't discuss it last week.
...APIs look pretty sane. There is an issue with the transport; I raised an issue in their repo. No feedback yet.
...If they try to take it to rec, I'd raise a formal objection.
Alex: transport issue
Sangwhan: No definition of transport, at all.  So vendors will only work with their protocols.
Alex: We've done this in the past where API, protocol and transport aren't open. It can be useful to ask if they have a plan to cover transport.  If they're planning to be more open, we should encourage the trajectory.
Sangwhan: right now, they have the open screen protocol. Early stages.  May be W3C or IETF. https://github.com/webscreens/openscreenprotocol
...I'm concerned not everyone will implement it.
Alex: All standards need adoption.  It may be counterproductive to beat up the people who are already trying to make it more open.  
Sangwhan: There is no way to know why remote playback failed (if you have an incompatible playback device). No info on the device.
...This could introduce the problem with sniffing.  Concerns?
Alex: We did a finding a few years ago [https://www.w3.org/2001/tag/doc/unsanctioned-tracking/] in Berlin, re what is/isn't fingerprintable. To date, we've told spec authors: please don't have unclearable cookies. Noting that many properties of the system may be discoverable by side effect.  
...I don't know that this is a new storage mechanism, but I'd like to make sure it has an asynchronous entry point so user agents can put consent between the user and the thing they're connecting to that gives away that info. To make the feature work, you'll have to give that info.
Sangwhan: there is little fingerprintable in the spec. So you'll know the promise failed, but not why.  Not a good user experience.
dka: Maybe worth bringing this up and point them to our finding (above)?
...Not our job to give them a completed design but rather to give feedback.
Sangwhan: there is no storage mechanism
Hadley: Also the UX is usually up to the implementors; the data/architecture parts that are used by the UX/UI is ours.  This seems to be partly in scope for us (and worth responding) and partly up to implementors. 
Sangwhan: I'll look at whether it's possible to give more meaningful error info and get back to them.


	* Feature Policy - David



	* Offscreen Canvas - David, Travis



	* HTML 5.2 Request
Reopened https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/119
dka: Let's spend some time on this in Japan.


	* More triage


	* Tokyo planning

	Dan: Consensus that we should try to do the TAG engagement as a panel rather than breakouts, + speakers that local meetup is sourcing
	
