TAG Teleconf 4 Jan 2017

David Hadley Travis Yves Peter Dan
Regrets: Alex Andrew

--

Payment request Review
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/146
David: i made these comments and need to cirlce back and see what feedvacj there's been.

Media Stream Capture
Travis: I did a review of that yesterday - high level feedback is the ergonomics - way that it's structured - is good design.
... a couple points of feedback summarize in the issue.
... I will file the issues int heir github.
... you need to mint a new imageCapture object - you take that obj and attach it to a media stream. No distinction right now between a video or audio - so it' throws an exception if it's not video. to let you know it can / can't take the media...
... implicitly assumed coming from local camera.
... so you can set those capabilites - you have an API to take a picture - and an API call to grab a frame
... my feedback - 1 ) why a separate object when a lot looks like it could be an existing media stream 
... 2) they've reinvented the wheel of capabilities on the parent media stream - it might make sense ... could be merged ... - some redundancy
... 3) is it necessary to have an API to grab a frame? [also redundant?]
... 4) they make use of a new dictionary - point 2d - there's already a spec for defining a point, a dom point, for 3d processing - might be a bit oevrkill but maybe should use this?
... otherwise good.

Peter: I agree on the DOM point.

David: wondering what the motivations for the separate frame grabbing API are - maybe more efficient?

Travis: Maybe related to privacy reasons?

Travis: they should also have an explainer... where is the explainer? I will add that additional point of feedback.

--
hadley: I will be working on something on the need to standardise  privacy mode

--

RemotePlayback API

--
 Media Stream Recorder 
Travis: 2 issues filed on their repo - they're both still open according to GitHGub. Maybe this review is complete?
...At least we  can stash until they want a follow-up?

--
Design principles - will be major topic for next week

--
Next f2f after boston - we should firm that up before the Boston f2f.

David: lots of planing required
Travis: maybe another poll?



