6-6

*TAG Teleconference â€“ 06 June 2017 ; 15:00 UTC
San Francisco (U.S.A. - California)        Tuesday, 06 June 2017, 08:00:00        PDT        UTC-7 hours
Boston (U.S.A. - Massachusetts)        Tuesday, 06 June 2017, 11:00:00        EDT        UTC-4 hours
London (United Kingdom - England)        Tuesday, 06 June 2017, 16:00:00        BST        UTC+1 hours
Paris (France)        Tuesday, 06 June 2017, 17:00:00        CEST        UTC+2 hours
Tokyo (Japan)        Wednesday, 07 June 2017, 00:00        JST        UTC+9 hours
Corresponding UTC (GMT)        Tuesday, 06 June 2017, 15:00:00
*
Call Agenda (still in progress)

Present: Dan, Yves, David, Travis, Sangwhan, Andrew, Alex
Regrets: Hadley

Followups:
	* Privacy Mode - Hadley (have people updated the spreadsheet as requested?)
<Hadley not present, pushing to next call>

	* London face-to-face: Dev meet-up confirmed
		* Meet-up confirmed for the 26th hosted at the FT
		* we need to figure out how we do it / promote it.

DKA: Do we want to do a meetup as a London webperf thing or as our own and promote it

Current Issues:

AOB

DKA: Tag is taking a crack at bigger specs, how should we structure that

Web Share API - Review Requested! (#179)
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/179

DKA: David had comments on this
... Travis: I see a reply from the group
... David asked what the value of having the cancel and accept information
... Would have share targets being available be a privacy risk
... Group replied back, with use cases including modal UI
... Are there real privacy risks by exposing whether the user cancelled
... This popped up in WebRTC
... At the end it was decided that it wasn't a big issue so they went forward with it
DKA: What is his second piece of feedback
Alex: I don't understand the privacy concerns, e.g. once I get geolocation or other permission protected API this becomes a non-issue
David:I'm not sure how these APIs normally work
Alex: In Android right now you shoot off a share intent
David: The other bit is that it's using the pop-up blocking definition

<Alex fishing out Twitter Lite link and settings item for demo of spec in use>
    
DKA: What should we do? Should we keep the issue open?
Travis: I'd want to take a second look, but later
Alex: This is considered done from their perspective, so if it's 
    
Off-Screen Canvas - Travis

Travis: Will contact junov about this, additionally will put out some feelers for other people to ping

Spec style/structure checklist - Alex

<Pushed to next week, Alex had to leave early>

Web Payment Manifest - David / Andrew

David: I'm not entirely comfortable with not requiring a manifest file
DKA: It seems like we keep on running into this manifest file issue
... Andrew isn't around, should we bump?

<+1s>

Serialization of natural language in data formats such as JSON [I18N] 
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/178

Sangwhan: So I don't know what they are trying to do here
Travis: Does unicode provide a mechanism to tag the language or direction?
David: Yes (Links to http://unicode.org/faq/languagetagging.html )
DKA: What do we want to do here?
Travis: I think we can leave it
David: My worry is that they want to make a recommendation

Still pending:
	* TTML2 - Dan
