*Tuesday July 25th 2017

In attendance: David, Dan, Tim, Hadley, Travis, Peter, Sangwhan, Alex, Andrew you're even
Remote: Yves, Ralph
Morning Scribe: Travis
Afternoon Scribe: Andrew 

# Agenda
( https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2017/07-london/Agenda.md )

# Agenda Bashing

## TAG constitution

Ralph joins us for discussion about the AB's TAG feedback.
Also may want to discuss Registries
Ralph: though I'm not entitled to represent the AB (at least not this early in the morning)
<Tabled>

<Action for Peter to mail David>

## Design Guidelines

<Consensus to publish document as a note>
Dan: shortname should be 'design-principles'
Yves: We should be able to publish in TR space (auto-publish may not work for Notes, I'll check)

## Private Browsing
Hadley: I'd like some more prep-time... I need to make sure the Payments folks are happy with proposed wording.

## Registries
Dan: we noticed a lot of designs that needed registries. What came out of the resulting AB meeting's discussions? How can the TAG help with further discussion? Is there something at a higher level we need to think about?
Ralph: I looked into this... to see what kinds of registries we had. Presented this to the AB. (They are all over the map...)

https://github.com/w3c/architecture/wiki/IndexofRegistries
ML Discussion: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2017Apr/thread.html , https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/tag/2017May/thread.html

Ralph: I reviewed this with the AB. (Included some of the external ones as well.) AB didn't come up with any specific advice given the list (above), but is interested in continued dialog with the TAG. AB wonders "what is the question" being asked?
David: One of my questions: some of these registries are being created by WG that my go away. But the registry should be maintained after the WG is gone.
Ralph: this is related to PLH's "maintenance" of W3C specs (after the WG is gone). I recommended that registry maintenance should be a part of this. Just knowing what those registries are will help.
Ralph: Another question: should any of these registries be folded into ICANN registries. Other than knowing about them, I don't think we have a problem keeping them up-to-date.
Travis: Are they hard to find.
Ralph: we don't have a place where they are authoritatively listed, just in individual W3C recs.
Dan: ...This reminds me of Paul Downey's work on registries in the UK government
Hadley: It does have some parallels, but I haven't heard any calls for this registries work to standardise the registries. I thought we were talking about keeping them discoverable and sustainable.
Tim: In RDF land (IETF registries); it would be nice if they returned RDF with good mimetypes. I wrote some code to create a place in W3C for mimetypes... You could consider mimetypes broken because you ahve to use an XML file to interpret them, but 'magically' find the XML file (download/parse)--they're not like URLs. Suggesting RDF as a model, might be met with conservative response.
Travis: not sure we need to make these machine-processible, just discoverable
Travis: Humans should be able to find and read these.
Tim: we have different goals: machines should be able to use it. If there are two items in your registry, then fine--don't need machine readable. But more than that, it should be.
Ralph: I suspect WG would like some design patterns to help them.
(Dan created the design-principles issue #68) https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/68
Ralph: AB will be happy to see that.
Dan: Should we be issueing guidelines on whether registires should or should-not be created?
Alex: Registries happen. We are responding to a need.
Ralph: For each spec, the TAG can weigh in.
Alex: For people who use Registries, understand the maintenance/ scale of growth. Should not be used to infinitely extend a spec.
Peter: how open, who can edit, etc., are important concerns
Andrew: should registry have the same process as updating a spec?
David: No, I think there is the intent to have a lighter-weight process
Ralph: A registry is like an indirection point.
Dan: <Summarizing>. Is there anything else we need to do? Should we recommend that a common place be created.
Peter: I'd like to see the team create this. The TAG doesn't need to be the gatekeeper for this.
Alex: +1
Dan: Peter should send a request to the AB (email) tell them... (all the stuff that Peter said before)
Ralph: Other than not having a registry of registries, and a maintenance plan, I don't think there is another problem. Does that sounds like a good AB response?
Tim: bit of a missed opportunity that you have to just know the URL for the registry.. Ontology would have been nice.
Peter: Seems like a problem that any WG can just create a registry in any format, in any place (e.g., a wiki page)
Alex: we already advise as part of our service, we can continue to do this
Andrew: are we concerned about melting a server by having lots of software hard-code links into a server? (Don't do it too often)
Tim: get the registry when you build the software, not every time you run it
Ralph: at least honor the HTTP caching headers

## Spec obsoletion
Dan: Checking our repo--is empty.
Travis: HTML has a number of things in the queue...bit of discussion about newer version of HTML (5.0). 
Ralph: would the TAG offer an opinion on the HTML obsolete question?
Travis: I think we should take the least-common denomonator--take HTML 5.0 and above off the table, and proceed with obsolete status of the other [older] HTML specs.
Ralph: Obsolete context: if you were implementing the entire web space, "obsolete" means you don't even need to look at it. (You don't need to implement it anymore.)
Sangwhan: what do we think about specs that don't have an obvious replacement?
Ralph: nothing precisely replaces P3P (for example). There is some wiggle room in 'obsolete' to put some prose in place to redirect the reader.
Dan: <reviewing the process decided in Tokyo>  https://pad.w3ctag.org/p/2017-04-27-minutes.md
https://www.w3.org/2017/Process-20170301/#rec-rescind
Dan: Issue list we created in Tokyo : https://github.com/w3ctag/obsoletion/issues (please see the template by clicking "new issue").

	[[ These requests should only be filed with the TAG when the working group that created the specification in question is no longer active.]] -- per https://github.com/w3ctag/obsoletion <Ralph> +1 to this expectation


# Design reviews

## Review request for WebVR
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/185
[Alex, Dan, Travis]
Travis: coming soon: (1) AR (2) input (gamepads, hololens, etc.).  Input is complicated.  Raycaster devices; need coordinates, etc.
Alex: we had questions for them about isolation vs. peak performance.  Design today still seems to assume clean main thread.  Do things in that context at 120Hz?  Doesn't seem to be a mechanism here to get a clean main thread.  Primary mechanism targeted is embedded content.  Not sure where big picture questions are being addressed.
[ discussion/disagreement about whether it should be in a WG ]
Alex: <gets worked up about premature WG construction>
Dan: We also need to consider the IPR issues in a CG vs WG. I've been hopeful this can get to WG soon to protect against those problems.
[[ the notice to the AC of work in progress on a WebVR WG charter was sent on 1 Jan: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/w3c-ac-members/2017AprJun/0046.html ]]
Formal objections have been filed.
We will come back to this issue in a breakout session.
* Alex notes: is there an assumption that it's all rendered on one canvas? (Both eye frames must be painted?)

## Review request for Push API
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/184
[Andrew, Dan, Sangwhan, Alex, Hadley, TimBL]
Dan: Wondering about the single-centralized push service issue (as noted in the issue)
Alex: we talked about this a long time ago.. it's not required in the spec. We could have Peter comment (he's in London). Lots of the other aspects (Web Push Protocol and VAPID) are standardized at IETF.
Dan: would be helpful to have him participate.
Alex: previous feedback: https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/blob/master/2013/08/Push%20API.md and https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/6; what has changed?

## Review Request for OpenType Variable Fonts Additions to CSS Fonts Module Level 4
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/183
[Travis, David, Peter]
David: This is a single font file with info on how it changes in response to weight/other values.  CSS needs to be hooked up to this.
Alex: chromium launch bug: https://crbug.com/669453

## Request to review Image Decode API
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/182
[Andrew, Sangwhan, Travis, Peter]

## Consider template change to add link to WPTs for far-along specs
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/181
Action: Alex to complete this

## TAG review for script type=module
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/180
[Sangwhan, Andrew, Alex, Travis, Hadley]

## Serialization of natural language in data formats such as JSON [I18N]
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/178
Scheduled for 3pm today with special guest Addison Richard Ishida and full group
https://w3c.github.io/string-meta/#unicode-enough
Alex: i18n of manifest files?  Serve different file from server?
... I see a lot of structure in JSON for message strings keyed by language eg ISO 639
Travis: don't want to over-standardise because it's often possible to optimise
Alex: I'd like a use cases list
Ralph: https://w3c.github.io/string-meta/ has much of that
Richard: some of the possible solutions are not written up yet, they are just placeholders
Richard: we can do some more work on use cases
Alex: I would apprecaite pointers to some of the background docs
Alex: This is a cross-cutting conversation.  The TAG exsits in part to broker conversations between different groups.
Ralph: Since we don't have a way to represent internationalisased strings in JSON....?
Richard: sounds like localization; we're not addressing localization, we're talking about..
Travis: there's not much of the web platform that is language specific, eg createTextNode doesn't care what the content is
Ralph: So a binary blog would be OK?
Travis: Yes, data model would be intact
... guidance to tell you where to find the metadata would be good
Richard: could be a big mixture, eg a list of books with titles in different languages
Ralph: if the application has to go somewhere else, you don't want that to be too far
Travis: Fonts are linked to this, apps need to pick the right font for a given language
Ralph: the problem here is that we don't know how to pass an i18nised string through JSON
Richard: it's not just JSON
Ralph: yes, but JSON is a target of opportunity since it's very popular with developers
David: web app manifest has the name of the app, you need the app to be aware of what lang this is in
Alex: Up to now G has used separate manifests for this
Alex: What can the TAG do
Richard: write down the rationale for exclusions
Alex: What should be excluded?
David: One example is avoiding all JSON parsers in existence.  It's too widely deployed as a format
Alex: Changing JSON itself is fraught
Richard: if it were an incremental change, would that be OK?
Peter: only with a time machine.  JSON does not have a forward compatible extension mechanism
Alex: We can establish conventions but we can't change grammar or syntax
Richard: You can already do something in JSON-LD with an ampersand and a language tag
TimBL: it's in the string itself?
Richard: I'm not an expert on JSON
TimBL: this will parse to... an i18n text string?
Alex: Partial support for this in JavaScript
https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld/#string-internationalization
Travis: why isn't the UTF-8 text in the string good enough?
David: many characters reusd bteen multiple languages
Richard: [example 31 in JSON-LD] Chinese characters used in a JA context, also stylistic differences, chars might look chinese to a japanese person
David: A font will know how to render a characterr
Richard: Second Screen spec wanted to provide error messages
Richard: I'm taking actions to send examples of where this is problematic and where this has arisen within W3C, also info on Unicode language tagging, but getting that to change is hard
<r12a> 3 actions for i18n:
<r12a> 1. provide usage scenarios and example to understand issue
<r12a> 2. provide pointers to wgs that have expereienced problems
<r12a> 3. explain how unicode language tags actually work - you won't like it
<r12a> action for tag
<r12a> 1. send i18n descriptions of things you dont' think will work, and why

## Request to review First Paint Timing
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/177
No substantive feedback.  Updated and closed

## WICG Shape Detection API
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/176
[Alex, Sangwhan, David]
Sangwhan: concerned that OSes don't consistently provide the underlying tech
... if you needed to support this on Linux it would need to be implemented in the browser
... I'm ok with face detection but text detection is only on android
Travis: can we suggest we drop the stuff that is not implemented by underlying platforms
Sangwhan: Not sure who would want to develop that
Travis: is there a way the shape of the API could fit in, regardless of the underlying tech?
Sangwhan: face and barcode is OK.  Many ways to do barcode
Dan: aren't there patents for some kinds of barcodes
Travis: For rec track we'd need a WG
Sangwhan: I'd like to say no to text detection, can post that feedback and see what they say
Alex: Processing model.  Where do you shuffle the bits to do the work?  Should not be on main thread
Travis: is this feature popular enough to standardise?
Alex: It's already baked into Windows, Android
Alex: barcodes and some other stuff can be baked into silicon sometimes
Andrew: This can be like battery status API, if device doesn't have a battery then it's not supported

## HTML General Review
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/174
[Sangwhan, Travis, Alex?]

## Request for TAG review of Input events level 2
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/173
[Travis, Sangwhan, Alex]

## Budget API (especially reserve() method)
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/169
[Alex, Andrew, Hadley]

## WebAssembly Response API / Web Embedding
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/167
[Alex, Sangwhan, Travis]
Sangwhan to open issue on their tracker

## Writable Streams
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/163
Closed.

## Web payment method manifest
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/162
Alex: Can this be combined into web app manifest
Andrew: Seems a bit weird
Ralph: there could be a general framework for manifests; apps, payment methods, and publications each have their own vocabularies but could share a framework
Travis: As long as the keys aren't conflicting, it can be merged
Action: Assigned to an upcoming call milestone

## Request for TAG review of Input Events level 1
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/160
Action: Closed.  Review complete, feedback has been adopted

## Review Screen Orientation spec prior to CR-entry
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/157
Action: Sangwhan to post a comment and open an issue, Dan to close our issue

## Review ARIA in HTML specification (prior to CR transition)
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/156
Closed.

## MediaSession
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/149
Travis reviewed the open issues, will follow up individually, closing the main issue

## WebRTC Stats review
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/148
There's a lot of feedback already given.  Posted a chaser.  Issue remains open.

## Review OffscreenCanvas, including ImageBitmapRenderingContext
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/141
[Alex, Sangwhan, Travis]
Travis: We are still feeling uncomfortable about this API--we understand how this is to work, and the technical details, but still wonder about the use cases--why its necessary? Will need to follow-up about how to respond in the issue.

## TV Control API
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/111
Closed, group dead

## Custom Paint API to CR
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/140
Dan: lots of issues raised here related to Houdini
<TimBL provides soundtrack>
<Andrew provides improved soundtrack>
Peter: we have a houdini meeting next tuesday
Dan: we should revisit after that

## Review Accessibility Object Model
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/134
Post comment to ask if it's ready for review, leave open

## MediaStream Image Capture
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/133
Closing our issue, review complete.  Travis wants to follow up on one subissue, will take personal action.

## MediaStream Recorder
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/131
Posted a comment to chase up the issues.  Issue remains open

## Media Capture From DOM Element
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/130
We'd like an explainer, and query relationship with protected media.  Review complete.  Issue remains open, follow up in a month.

## TAG Review of HTML 5.2 (previously 5.1)
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/119
Agreed to close, and any followups to happen in #174

## WebUSB
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/108

## WebVR
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/106
Closed in favour of #185
