W3C TAG call 11 April 2017
Attending: Dan, Peter, Wendy, Andrew, Sangwhan, David, Hadley, Travis, Alex
Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2017/telcons/04-11-agenda.md

Admin note: Andrew's contributor colour has changed from a distinguished and subtle pink that carries authority and gravitas to a bold, decisive red which communicates high performance and rapid iterative innovation.
Scribe: Andrew

Call Agenda

EME Covenant - What is the current status?
Process improvements postmortem - Andrew
Web Payments Specifications - David, Travis
Input Events - Travis
Screen Orientation API - Sangwhan
Keyboard Event 'code' and 'key' - Travis
Remote Playback API - Sangwhan, Alex, Travis
Feature Policy - David
Offscreen Canvas - David, Travis
Tokyo dev event update
More issue triage?


## Screen orientation

Sangwhan: not done with it yet
... haven't been able to resolve some queries about round displays
... otherwise no serious issues, eg security, privacy etc.
... there's a question about when the UA should allow the API to be invoked
... seems to be a non-normative note but should be normative


## Developer meetup in Japan

Sangwhan: I found a good location in the same complex as Google Tokyo
... venue can hold 80-100 people
... HTML5J and Keio didn't have anything that worked
Dan: date?
Sangwhan: first day of the F2F, Thursday
Dan: How do we use this, fill the venue?
Sangwhan: HTML5J is working on the agenda. Unconf doesn't work for 3 hours in Japan
Dan: needs to be stuff on our agenda, stuff TAG has an interest in. Diverse speakers.

Action: Sangwhan to post link here

## EME

Dan: There are notes in the agenda.  I asked Marcos to add these, based on conversations from twitter about how EME relates to DMCA
... this keeps flaring up on twitter
... I'd like to know about sandboxing to follow up on issue from last week (with Alex, not yet on call)
... also covenant about protection of <inaudible>
Wendy: The covenant does not have consensus.  EFF proposed a covenant that those working on EME would not use DMCA to prosecute people doing security or interoperability research.
Dan: Is there an alt proposal which is a voluntary statement or less binding covenant idea floated by W3CM
... maybe there's a CG forming around this?
Wendy: There was a proposal on security disclosures: https://w3c.github.io/security-disclosure/
... that orgs accepting vulnerability disclosures  should agree not to sue disclosers or co-operate with law enforcement against them, that doc was put out to AC review
Hadley: was this proposal made at the same time as EME was put forward for review by AC?
Wendy:The Security Disclosure proposal was made as a team submission by PLH, and put forward to the membership in a questionnaire at the same time as the EME PR
Dan: Covenant is DOA at this poiint?
Wendy: It does not have current momentum
Dan: Could TAG do something to create momentum
Wendy: A concern has been raised that the Security Disclosures Best Practices is not the best way to address vulns created by DMCA because it starts by creating a framework in which disclosure is only appropriate with specific provisions.  TAG could say that we think covenant is a better way, would only work if it was mandatory.
Dan: Where would be the best place for us to provide that input
Wendy: Security disclosures github? https://github.com/w3c/security-disclosure/
Dan: Alex, you've joined.  Sandboxing?  Is there a TAG consensus on the importance of a covenant?
<alex vanishes>
Hadley: I have issues.  I don't like DRM, I'm not convinced EME is a good policy for the web - but I don't think this proposed covenant is an effective way to solve that.
... Most people who use DMCA to enforce their copyrights are not W3C members, they are people who own a lot of copyrighted material
... Putting more onus on web implementors will provide a disincentive for people to paritcipate in web standatrds
Dan: Hadley is the TAG member who has most experience in the policy area, we should be listening (implication that normally we don't :-) )
<alex reappears>
Alex: Studios and movie houses do not implement DRM on their own
... they do it through partnerships with implementors
... so it is relevant, meaningful because implementors have a seat at the table
... google ships a lot of EME
Travis: The covenant is not in the W3C's best interests.  Interesting tack to take in the EME story. Agree with Alex about impelementors being relevant and involved.  We are excited to get rid of flash. Flash is [probably] worse from a security and reliability standpoint than EME software systems.
Dan: the original statement TAG made was supporting security research and user privacy.  A black box piece of software might be doing stuff that is not in the service of the primary purpose of the EME
... might be doing other stuff.  If security researchers probe a piece of software is behaving badly, they might be prosecuted
... another way to address this concern is to use sandboxing
... TAG should continue to push on this architectural issue
... should be be putting our weight behind a more voluntary approach
Andrew: That's all fine, but we sometimes drift into more ideological discussions about the benefits or otherwise of DRM.  This is not about that
Hadley: I second that. I think there are architectural concerns and user privacy that is very much in our remit. 
SAngwhan: How many black box software vendors are on W3C?
Alex: Goog, MS, Adobe...
Dan: This is not about content creators, it's about security research
Andrew: it should focus on sec research, then it's less contentious
Dan: What can we do this week? To keep this fresh in people's minds
Wendy: This week the call for review on the EME PR and interest in the security disclosures doc will close.  Now with director.  There are already (public) objections to the EME PR.  There will be more discussion on what happens next.  It is timely for the TAG to say something now if we have something to say.
Dan: Individual TAG members can get involved in this discussion, github, AC mailing list.  Along the lines of this discussion.
Wendy: Not is EME good or bad, we just need something to protect security researchers

Action: Hadley to draft a response to the sec discloures doc, and circulate for feedback

## Call scheduling

Dan: We'll have a call next week at the same time

## Web payments https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/152

Travis: Our part is done for the time being
David: Travis reviewed the larger spec (Travis: I looked at all three), I did the smaller ones
... stuff I thought was clear I filed in the repo
... stuff that isn't ready to be a concrete issue is in the TAG issue, but I wrote it in the last 8 hours so it needs some time for people to feed back
Travis: Yes, we should allow some time
David: one think is related to the remote playback situation we were discussing a few weeks ago
Dan: punt to F2F?
David: +1


## Input events https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/160

Travis: I took a look at this
... two kinds of events are fired, beforeinput and afterinput.  Goal of spec is to add data to those events
... JS authors who create editing tools can track what the browser is intending to do with these edits
... allow intercept actions such as CTRL/CMD + B for bolding text and cancel or replace the action
... each input event will be dispatched with it's type eg insetfrompaste, area that will be mutated
... so there's a lot of detail here, I'm still in the middle of the review
... if event is fired before input is processed by UA, creates synchronous dependency.  Reliabiliity problems and perf concerns?
... has been well debated with people like WHATWG.  It remains an architectural concern
... I'll be looking at whether they elaborate on these concerns in the spec
Alex: is the concern the same as for mutationevents
Travis: Doesn't necessarily have the same re-entrancy (Andrew: ???) problem
Dan: We'll punt to next week
