*TAG Teleconference â€“ 09 May 2017 ; 15:00 UTC
San Francisco (U.S.A. - California)        Tuesday, 09 May 2017, 08:00:00        PDT        UTC-7 hours
Boston (U.S.A. - Massachusetts)        Tuesday, 09 May 2017, 11:00:00        EDT        UTC-4 hours
London (United Kingdom - England)        Tuesday, 09 May 2017, 16:00:00        BST        UTC+1 hours
Paris (France)        Tuesday, 09 May 2017, 17:00:00        CEST        UTC+2 hours
Tokyo (Japan)        Wednesday, 10 May 2017, 00:00        JST        UTC+9 hours
Corresponding UTC (GMT)        Tuesday, 09 May 2017, 15:00:00

Present: Peter, Hadley, Travis, Yves, David, Sangwhan, Alex
Regrets: Dan

Chair: Peter
Scribe: David

Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2017/telcons/05-09-agenda.md

Topic: TV-Specific Web subsetting https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/105
Hadley: Haven't heard back from Ralph, who we we're waiting for to connect us to HBBTV.
Peter: bump milestone how far?
Hadley: 2 or 3 weeks?

Topic:  Spec style/structure checklist - Alex https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/136
Peter: anyone other than alex working on this?
Peter: let's move 2 weeks out
[later]
Alex: have been making slow progress on draft explainer template, will let you know when ready

Topic: WebRTC Stats review - Alex, Hadley, Travis (pending feedback) https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/148
Hadley: Travis added a lot of comments in the last half hour.  I guess we now need responses from them.
[Alex arrives]

Topic: WebAssembly Response API / Web Embedding - Sangwhan, Alex, Travis https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/167
Sangwhan: We have stuff we want to raise, but we haven't actually raised issues on their issue tracker.  One of us needs to sit down and report those issues, or discuss this in their call.
Sangwhan: Or does anyone else have better options?
Alex: last I saw from a webassembly meeting, they'd changed the signature
Sangwhan: want a week to look at that
Peter: who's raising the issues?
Sangwhan: I can
Alex: Last thing I saw from them looked like change to signatures of APIs.  Broken out into async variants of the methods, which is a little funky.  Not sure if reflected publicly anywhere yet.
Alex: something like an async compile method -- so they don't overload compile and instantiate methods with promises.  I feel like it should go the other way, synchronous should be the odd one out.  Let me see if I can find something we can actually comment on.
Alex: discussion in https://github.com/WebAssembly/design/issues/1040
[ SCRIBE DISCONNECTED FOR A BIT ]
Sangwhan: I'll comment on 1040 in their repo.  OK?  Then revisit in 2 weeks?

Topic: SharedArrayBuffer + Atomics - Sangwhan, David, Travis (pending feedback) https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/165
David: mostly done, wanted to hear about deadlock handling, didn't hear back yet
David: maybe push 2-3 weeks and I'll ping people

Topic: Domenic's pull request / issue on design-reviews https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/63 , https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/pull/64
David: reads https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/63
Alex: should say we don't want to remove your authorship unless it's something you want.
Peter: just went to "past and present TAG members"
Alex: nice to have names.  Would like to acknowledge him since he contributed a lot
Alex: will reply in issue


