Minutes Telecon 2017-05-30
Attending: Dan, Alex, Travis, David, Peter, Sangwhan
Regrets: Hadley
Scribe: Travis, then David

*Followups:
    
Privacy Mode - Hadley (have people updated the spreadsheet as requested?
(skipping cause Hadley not on the call...)

London face-to-face scheduling update?
David: Still need to figure out lunch, but everything else should be good.
Dan: Dates are fixed: 25-27 July (Tues-Thurs) @ Mozilla offices in London.
David: Andrew looking into doing an event at FT (5 minutes walk)
Andrew: I heard from Georgina (not a firm yes/no yet). 
Dan: OK, let's sync up on Slack with details; I'm thinking mini-workshop, with a few breakouts.
Andrew: Venue is one big room (approx 100 people)
Dan: We could structure it a bit like our first Tokyo meeting (2016 Nov), with lightning talks + breakout.
Andrew: A panel also would work well (for the London crowd)
Dan: yes... panels are easy to manage. If we reach-out to London Web Performance... we could have them just run the whole thing (treat it as their thing...)

Review Origin Policy - Anything further to do here?
https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/127
Dan: anything else we need to do? Follow-ups from our discussion with Mike last week?
Andrew: no
Dan: what about issue 127?
Andrew: So... why do we need to discuss how/if to close an issue after every issue?
Dan: meta meta something meta... let's close it.
All: OK.

*Current Issues:

Review Offscreen Canvas - Sangwhan, David, Travis
David: we left it as pending external feedback, but didn't follow up... I pinged Justin a bit ago asking for feedback. Might be too soon to close the issue?
Dan: OK, let's pick this up again next week.

Spec style/structure checklist - Alex
Alex: Haven't made progress on this. Come back to this next week?

Cross spec device identification - Travis
Travis: rewrote everything -- teased out 4 different topics:
    1. whether we should have device or group IDs at all.  My general takeaway is that we don't have an overarching pattern to apply here -- up to each feature as they consider how devices relate or or are part of some larger whole.  Hard to give specific TAG advice here, so I set this one aside.
    2. a question of correlation of devices and group IDs.  You have a device that shows up with an ID under a particular API, e.g., getUserMedia, but might also show up as a device under a different API, e.g., bluetooth.  Question is whether IDs from separate features should be correlatable.  Should you be able to identify that it's one device through 3 endpoints?  Seems useful to correlate.  So long as it's within one origin there's not a lot of harm/risk, though potential for fingerprinting.  But it doesn't seem like a big increase in the amount of entropy available for fingerprinting within a single origin.  I think the IDs should be correlated.  When we can tell the device is the same across feature sets, we should try to reuse IDs and make that automatic.
    3. persistence -- how long should these IDs be useful?  Across sessions?  Retrievable later to find the same device?  I take the opposite stand on persistence from correlation.  I think we should not allow IDs to be persistent by default in any case -- should be generated uniquely for each visit to an origin.
Alex: Why is that better than policy like in unsanctioned tracking -- as long it's under user control for things like clearing cookies?  Or are we concerned that people might use as a transient mechanism for persistence
Travis: I'm not necesarily opposed to that viewpoint.  I think general policy is that things shouldn't be persistent.  It should be be possible to enable persistence -- but should be something you opt in to, not something that happens inconsistently across the platform.
Alex: Say I'm building a camera app?  Say I select the front-facing camera.  If I close app and come back -- should front-facing camera be selected?  Can I build that experience?  Or something with larger tree of devices with WebMIDI or WebUSB.
Travis: And that setup could be time consuming.  I think having persistence as an available feature is beneficial.  I'm trying to address what we should recommend for persistence.  Persistent by default, case by case, or non-persistent by default?  I think default should be don't persist, given possibility of multiple sites correlating on device IDs.
Peter: A middle ground solution there is each device getting different ID per origin that persists for that origin until cookies are cleared.
Travis: One of the specs already does that.  If we think that's a good default we could recommend it.
Travis: In this issue, also want to tackle question of translation of device ID into persistent ID vs. local transient ID.  Could opt in to persistence using a specific API that's the same in all cases.  That's the API I sketch out in the issue.  Async API, could be tied to a user permission.  Could alert the user, put the user back in the loop.  I don't know if the user needs to know, but interested in thoughts on that.
Dan: Don't want to make it hard  for web apps to persist IDs.  I don't want to set mic/speaker every time on WebRTC.  For usability, easy persistence is useful.  You'll want a different profile of devices specific for a Web app.  I like the idea of Travis's API sketch -- is the bar about user privacy high enough that it requires an extra prompt here.  I think the wording here is pretty reasonable.  Is it something that the user would be significantly able to decipher, or would everybody request the persisted permission so that this is the thing you have to do to make it work.
David: Having async api doesn't mean you have to have a prompt -- it means you can if you want.
Travis: Could even add to permissions API to ask if a UA would prompt if you ask for a persistent ID.
Travis: So sounds like maybe we don't want to recommend not persistable by default.  So, Alex, you were suggesting we describe privacy-preserving way to do persistence by default?
Alex: I'm mor asking the question -- If we went with getPersistentDeviceID style of API -- how does that map to all the device IDs we currently expose?  Peter's suggestion of double-keying based on origin (and clearing with cookies) seems simplest.  Whatever happens is going to have implications, and we'll want consistency across APIs.  If we go with API, I'd like to see it more fully fleshed out.
Travis: Sounds like an action for me to write up in more detail and solicit other opinions in the community.
Dan: Great idea.  Maybe even just on our issue.  Alex, maybe some of your colleagues who are working on permissions API stuff might have thoughts on this?
Alex: <inaudible> <still inaudible, though perhaps positive sounding>
Dan: Travis, after you make edits, maybe we can all think about people involved to try to solicit feedback.  I expect Lucas will have opinion.  etc.

Object Detection API and general wrapper specs

[Copypasta'ed from Slack, 5/29]
-----
Having computer vision on the platform is definitely something that would be useful, I'm just not entirely sure if blindly
wrapping (unaligned) underlying platform APIs is a interoperable way forward.

As a simple example, the CoreGraphics APIs for text detection require you to bring your own OCR engine, while others
(e.g. Android Mobile vision) give you text. I'm not sure how implementors are expected to deal with this - bundling
Tesseract in the browser seems a bit like overkill, and in practice it doesn't work that well with text that didn't come
out of a flatbed scanner.
(These comments will be replicated on the original GH issue, but I wanted a second opinion on this before posting) 
But then again, bringing full blown accelerated linalg primitives to the web is also a (e.g. WebBLAS and native matrix types for ECMA262?) fairly huge project so that probably won't fly.

Additional comments would be about how to deal with baseline training data for pre-baked learner models, which affects detection
performance across different "implementations", which would be a problem for the Viola-Jones detector the OP mentions in his reply.
(He calls it "haar cascade", it's the same thing)
(In this case, is the initial implementor willing to share the eigenfaces used, for example)
-----

related to https://github.com/w3ctag/design-reviews/issues/176

Sangwhan: <missed a little since not clear who was scribing>
Sangwhan: will be a lot of consistency issues across implementations given different OS support.  Similar to issue I raised with remotePlayback.
Sangwhan: Facial detection bits depend on learning algorithm.  Requires training data.  Would need to share training data, parameters, across implementations.  Not sure if that belongs in a spec.
Travis: Not sure to what degree perfect interop is possible when you're dealing with machine learning.
Alex: Or even desirable?  Sometimes we elide implementation details to get broad compatibility.
Sangwhan: What should implementations do when no OS functionality?  Include OpenCV?  How would Firefox be interoperable across Windows, Mac, and Linux.
Alex: Lots of example of selective support depending on underlying device and OS capability.  Some APIs sometimes aren't made available, or will return failure.
Sangwhan: This is mainly software.  Not sure..
Alex: We have some examples:  lots of APIs will support feature detection.  Won't provide object, or will throw an error.
Alex: Like progressive enhacement - sometimes running on an older browser.  Web developers accustomed to building content with these differences.
Sangwhan: You're suggesting implementations just not provide feature when no native API to plug into.
Alex: For shape detection, browser could provide its own implementation.  Same has happened with video decode -- some in software and some in hardware -- and to the extend that choice matters there's API being proposed to make it clearer to developer what's happening under the covers.
Travis: You could imagine a detection API on Linux to call a Web service to do it.
Travis: We don't seem to be opposed to an API like this in the platform.
Sangwhan: This provides 3 fairly basic detectors that would be useful in a lot of use cases.  I'm not necessarily opposed -- but it's not extensible at all.  There's no way to expand frmom the current APIs proposed, as a nonimplementor.
Travis: What builing blocks would be better?
Sangwhan: blas (basic linear algebra subroutines), I guess.  Routines provided in fortran many years ago, but canonical standard for this type of scientific computing.  Now mostly assembly.
[ web fortran jokes ]
Sangwhan: JS isn't great at matrix types.  That's another thing.
Travis: We have a geometry API from fx group with matrix interface, and rect and point.
Sangwhan: 
Travis: It's an interface now, but chatted with Brian ??? from ECMA TC39 whether ECMA would be interested.
Alex: TC39 is a bad placeto do library work.
Travis: A couple other things on agenda before this would even be tenable.
Peter: The FX stuff is 2d and 3d transform matrices, not gneral purpose matrices.
Sangwhan: I'll add a comment on original review issue.  I'm not entirely opposed, but I'm a bit concerned about wrapper specs.
Alex: I think there's a princple we might want to articulate.  At some level CSS wraps graphics calls.  We don't have a GDI API.  All the Web is constructed out of abstracted thing.   The thing about extensible web.  Articulating extensible web -- principled view of what happens when we punch through the layers -- explain what happens.  WebGL doesn't explain how CSS works.  That's a real problem.  At some level everything's a wrapper spec.  It's not bad to introduce high level things.  We should push people to explain connections when they expose both high level and low level things.  Camera spec - we're not exposing system calls, but it's pretty low level.  Because bottoming out at hardware, I'm interested to know distance between OS and this API -- could imagine more distance.  Is this happening off thread.  It doesn't seem out of line with the rest of the Web in terms of APIs.  Travis, what do you think?
Travis: entering a new realm of API growth.  Machine learning algorithms.
Sangwhan: I'd like to see movement towards general framework on more extensible and tweakable machine learning algorithms on the Web.  This is just a fixed set of features -- a face detector, get landmarks back, can't do anything about it, train it, find cats, etc.
Alex: If we have user space addressable high performance machine learning models.  how would I plug this in to the api?  [missed a little]  How do I plug in a model -- that's the question we should ask.
Dan: Mind blown.
Travis: Brian said matrix stuff wouldn't be in scope soon.  Doing value types in preparation for having BigInt for crypto stuff, but now working on that directly instead of going through value types directly.
Dan: We have #176 on shape detection.  Is there a meta issue that we have.  Is this finding-class?  Or should this go into existing deliverable, like design guidelines?
Sangwhan: I think some belongs in design guidelines?
Dan: Sangwhan, can you open an issue?
...
Alex: This is built in to billions of phones.
Sangwhan: Yes Android, parts on iOS, not sure abotu Windows phones.
Travis: opportunity to expose something that's a platform or OS primitive API to the Web.
Sangwhan: I'll add an additional comment about what we discussed today on the review -- none opposed to this.  About consistency issue -- what's the plan?  And about extensibility in the future?
Dan: And let's keep issue open for now.


TTML2 - Dan
(still haven't had a chance to get to this)
