TAG Teleconf 16 May 2017

Andrew, Dan, Travis, Yves, David, Hadley

Finding (Andrew)
...discussing open issues on finding
Agreed to take the doc over to github, etc...

Privacy Mode (Hadley)
	Taking us through https://www.slideshare.net/hadleybeeman/private-browsing-a-rant-for-opentech-2017
	also putting together a document https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10kulKoA6b_EWXDjzlg2DXS2vKL1NbW0NvPbcnWo5v0s/edit#gid=0 with what different browsers do...
	Need to get table fleshed out...
	... give it another week...
	... then go back to last discussion ...
	... what do we think we can do? what impacts does it have on other spec writers...
	 ... gather more data.
	
Feature Policy
	Still many open issues...
	No follow-up actions for a while...
	
	Keep open and track it long term or close?
	
	We need to agree on process here...
	
meta-issue: should we just just close issues when we issue feedback?
	Andrew: boiler-plate that we are closing it... 
	
	TYravis: we need to track if the feedback has been received and [absorbed] but its not our job to make sure our feedback has been adopted...
	
	+1 (dka)
	
Viewport issue: we closed it - 

Web payment manifest - we need to punt it and make sure we get feedback 
