W3C TAG call 4 April 2017
Attending: Dan, Hadley, Travis, David, Alex, Peter, TimBL, Wendy
Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2017/telcons/04-04-agenda.md

Web Payment Spec
Issue 152 https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/152

David: Travis?
Travis: There are 3 docs here. A request API, payment method identifiers and the basic part in the spec.  Most of the tech is in the patment request API. ??? come a long way, in good shape. 
dka: What's the next step? 
Travis: Overall, the doc looks great. There are just a few nit-picks I had as I read through, but nothing serious. 
(sorry, connection is just bad today--I dropped off jitsi, and will follow-along in the notes here. Note that of my review ., I only was able to get to the PaymentRequest API--none of the others have made any progress last week)

Privacy
Hadley: We started talking about privacy and "private mode" at our last f2f.  In our last discussion of this, we thought we should check in with Wendy on ongoing work in the rst of the W3C.
Wendy: We are interested in exploring what else we can do to serve privacy on the Web, and looking for a good place for input. 
dka: Primarily, I wanted to make sure we wouldn't be stepping on anyone's toes if we start a new privacy-related work item.
Wendy: I would be happy to dance with TAG on privacy work. As a relatively small community of interest, I think we could usefully work together.
...The AC meeting is in an opportunity to bring things to the membership. PiNG co-chairs are unable to be there.
...Recognising privacy as an important part of our value. Half the considerations/reviews are looking for where there is support to do more, and research/background to do that.
dka: I'm happy to present something at the AC meeting in the context of the work of the TAG.  Can introduce it as a topic we'll discuss in more detail at our next F2F, as a potential work item, and try to solicit feedback. 
Hadley: I can help you prepare.
Wendy: Without presuming that we know what to do, I think it's useful to explore what are the needs of users, spec-authors, implementers. And what would be useful to address them.

EME
TimBL: There's a lot of discussion out there about DRM. We've discussed in the TAG a sandbox.
...Meanwhile one of the reasons people are protesting is the danger of rootkits, of spying on you.
...Anyone on the TAG have an update on that work?  On its efficacy? That could be a value-add.
alex: I can ask my colleagues working on EME, and I can look at the code.  MY expectation is that because the sandb oxing has different behaviour on different platforms, it's going to be a smeared answer.
...To what extent is this conversation about vulnerability- and patch-rate, or subversive working behaviour?
TimBL: I think the user doesn't want to have to divide those two questions.  a) the rootkit, b) the Adobe "we download all your electronic book library so we know what you read" approach. 
...For rootkits, it could be an attack. If the browsers can say under EME, you won't get a rootkit even if someone is trying to rootkit you — that would be a useful thing to say. Similarly, we will only give the DRM blob what it needs to do its job, and won't let it look at the other files on the user's system. Those would be useful statemnts to make, and I wish they'd been in the state.
Alex: I'll look into that.  And also see how much of the Chrome design we can share.
...We've had long debates on the TAG on behaviour around shut-down. The DRM folks will continue to push, we should expect that. It might be helpful to make sure the current limits are documented.

Fake news & AMP
dka: We've had a couple of discussions on your statement on fake news.  We've thought about putting it on the agenda for the upcoming f2f. @timbl, how can we help? 
dka: Also, Andrew wrote this post https://trib.tv/2017/03/31/amp-breaking-news/, saying (among other things) that AMP is related to the fake news issue.  Not TAG consensus, but we've all been discussing it.  Maybe we can help the team building AMP understand where the architectural breakages are?
Andrew: From the web architegure perspective, the AMP cache is problematic. Their team acknolwegde that.  The content is on a non-canonical URL, which we don't like. There are lots of issues in that that I don't cover but we could as the TAG, for example shared permissions. Personally, the issue is more an editorial one: it's becoming increasingly difficult to tell the difference between news I can trust and not trust, and AMP is a massive problem there. The team is reluctant to acknowledge this to me.
timbl: Good point.  I'm horrified by the idea of losing the domain name at the top.  We've taught people "that is the only thing we've got. Everything hangs on it." I don't think this is clever of us, and has had unintended consequences... but this breaks trust. Spear fishing, compromising the machine...  Thanks for making this connection.
Andrew: I think the news industry shares some culpability for allowing this to happen. We do not take control enough of distribution. We give that technology companies who say "we're going to fix news!" And media companies race to adopt them, without thinking about the implications.  We need to be concerned. I don't know if it's within the TAG's remit.  It's hugely problematic that the web is being used to promote things based on whether they true.
Alex: the concept of truth is layered on top of all the other signifiers we have.  The URL is all we have. Brands, sources, etc. It's not like truth is some inherent property of content on the web. It's something we sift the web to find. I think the problem is that we've lost that one thing we do have, which was key for helping users to sift.  It's subtle, but gutting.  
timbl: Twitter did change the URI... Interesting move.  Maybe one could push for going back to the original URL, to find the provenance. 
Hadley: Yes, but what is different with Twitter's approach is when you copy the link in twitter you get the original link, not the t.co link - preserves the "webbiness" [+1 on Webbiness-ish-ness -DKA]
timbl: With a back link provided by the operating system, which is an interesting compromise.  If that were available more often, then people might feel less reluctant to go back to the original source.
dka: It feels like we ought to be working on something here. The AMP issue — there is a lot specific to it. But as we've just discussed... there are Facebook Instant Articles, Apple News, etc. We ought to consider as a TAG finding? To articulate or rearticulate core principles... Perhaps at our F2F? Or the week before. Tim, will you be around to feed in?
timbl: I might have time to review it on the Friday of the F2F. 

Tokyo F2F
Things may not be coming together for this to happen... I think we'll just have drinks with the W3C team and anyone else who wants to join us.
Andrew: If you need any help, I can look into things...  Maybe W3C being hosted at Keio University?  Something simple, maybe less collaboration than our last Tokyo event? Let me have a chat to Sangwhan.
dka: That would be great. 

Remote Playback API
https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/145
david: After last week's call, Sangwhan was going to put a comment in this issue... but not yet. 

Full screen / Progressive Web Apps
Alex: I have thoughts as tech lead but not as TAG.
...Access to the URL bar for stand-alone apps — coming to Chrome. Will add a low priority persistent notification for common actions with the URL.  A system-level notification tray property, but like the URL bar.
...For minimum URL bar, we'll be shipping something like Chrome custom tabs. 
...For display browser mode, I'm not keen to support it for installability. Poeple can have apps that aren't apps, but we don't have to treat them like apps in the system. That's my view. 
...The display browser thing is pretty contended. Users expect applications to be part of the top level, but as soon as there is a tab manager subservient to the top level manager. There is a future: top-level browser window just for your app.  In side of it it had tabs. That could work.  We haven't built it and don't plan to, but that's what I would support. Makes sense to the user and system-level perspective. 
...The principle: we're probably not going to put UI requirements in standards.
Andrew: That makes snse. And for me, I support the standard. My beef is about browsers subsetting the spec  by saying you can only user certain values for ?????
Alex: The spec is the way it us to preserve UA flexibility about these sorts of issues.  The flexibility to add an onscreen prompt is there. Nothing on launchability, or launching in any particular mode. 
dka: More discussion at the F2F? 
Andrew: the ft.com manifest file, which explicity lists displayBrowser. Were just frustrated that it makes us a second class citizen on the web.
Alex: You're asking to not be treated as a first class citizen in the OS, so you're getting what you asked for.
Andrew: This means we're disadvantaged by not building a native app.
Alex: Chrome is providing the ability to be treated by the OS as an app.  That is the contract; we didn't set it. They are the OS-level contract. 
dka: I want to distill this to a conversation not involving UI choices that browsers and UAs make... but as some valuable feedback we can provide for the next version of the manifest. Issue seems to be: manifest doesn't provide level of granularity required for the decisions the OS needs to make, re how to treat these apps. We could workshop this out at our F2F.
Andrew: I have no desire to change the manifest spec. 
Alex: There is something to do here, which is to lobby UAs for a stand-alone window that is just your app. Shouldn't be too hard to build, but we haven't. Would comport with both modes. We should talk more about whether that meets your needs.
Andrew: I haven't considered the ideal alternative. I'm just aware that you're competing against a native app with a web view. Neither of what we have competes with it.
Alex: the native app with web view has the same modality as display standalone.
Andrew: Doesn't fit my experience. Pop you out of the app into the browser
Alex: We're adding support for that... will keep you in-app, but it happens to be a real browser. 
Andrew: If that's just Chrome, that's less useful for me.
Alex: iOS and Android support it, and most heavily-used apps on the platform use it.
Andrwe: Maybe a solution; I need to look into it.


Progressive Web Apps — Andrew's tweet.
dka: My question here: What was the issue?
Andrew: Next week. Not urgent. 

