TAG Telcon

2017-01-18

Present: Peter, David, Andrew, Travis, Hadley, Yves

Regrets: Dan
Scribe: Hadley

Topic: Polyfill finding

Andrew: A few new issues. To cover here: #1, #2, #6 and #8.  The others I can respond to in the doc myself, but would welcome help from other TAG members.

https://github.com/w3ctag/polyfills/issues/1
Thoughts?

Travis: We could attempt to use "prolyfill" as long as it's clear and isn't likely to be confused with "polyfill". 
Andrew: It's a classic case of people who use this word think everyone does. But that's not the case — here in Japan, nobody knows "prolyfill."  In Japanese phonetics, it's difficult to distinguish the two words.
...Best compromise: say "prolyfill" is the word, for better or worse, but acknowledge that it's similar to polyfill and always should be defined.  Remy, in his blog post, defined it as "speculative polyfill", which I think is useful.
Travis: It might be enough to use "speculative polyfill" everywhere and in one place include "speculative polyfill (prolyfill)"
Andrew: we kind of do that.

https://github.com/w3ctag/polyfills/issues/2
Andrew: Every polyfill in the world does this. Makes it a difficult point to argue. 
Travis: Do we fill that Domenic's argument has legs? Ideal world, I'd agree with him. But this is a world where "good enough" is okay. A lot of polyfills are good enough, and not different from native except for speed.  
Andrew: One of the points made: the idea that it was the fault of the polyfill authors in the case of situations where the native implementation comes after.  It then has a responsibility to conform to the polyfill, not the other way round.  Interesting perspective. 
Travis: Are we also advising that when your polyfill hasn't reached the tipping point, you don't give it a name that is vendor-prefixed?
Andrew: Yes. 
Travis: I'm thinking about whether it's okay to say "don't ever defer to native".  Before the tipping point, you won't have a problem anyway. The name and the standard name (when it arrives) will be different.  Tricky after the tipping point, when you're backfiling for older implementations that don't have the feature. And you have a reference implementation to test against.  
Andrew: After the tipping piont, there are implementations in the wild natively, so if you wnat to write a polyfill it makese sense to refer to them and to make something functionally equivalent. Before, there isn't an implementation to refer to.  If you speculatively refer to it, you're taking a big risk — and we advise you not to do that. I'm happy with the way we've worded that.
David: I agree this stuff changes at the tipping point.
Yves: I think we should be careful not to say that web browser makers have the power to break things and we are a bit unhappy that other people (polyfill authors) can break things before us.
David: I feel like this is an argument that polyfills shouldn't exist.
Peter:  If it's not a polyfill, it's just a library.
David: I think we're saying it is appropriate to build a thing that defers, but only when it's stable enough that you can tell that it's safe.
Andrew: I think we have consensus. I'll respond on the thread.

https://github.com/w3ctag/polyfills/issues/6
[multiple TAG members laugh at the appearance of the term "ponyfill"]
Andrew: the finding doesn't make any recommendations for library authors. So I'm suggesting 3 (pasted from comment):
    
	1. Don't modify globals or native object prototypes. If you ship code that emulates platform features, do so inside a closure
2. In considering whether to ship polyfill-like code inside your library, take account of:
		* How much of the feature you are using (would a complete polyfill be wasteful if you only need a few lines of it?)
		* How large is the polyfill code relative to your library code
		* Are there multiple polyfills available and if so do only some of them work with your library
		* Is there a significant perf hit when using a polyfill vs the native impl? If so, maybe your library should simply error early if the feature is not natively available rather than assuming it is or trying to simulate it.
3. Use native implementations of platform features where they are available
    
Travis: That looks good to me. Saying "consider just using/writing the part you need instead of getting the entire polyfill" is the opposite of what Domenic was suggesting, which was saying "if the polyfill can't do every part of the spec, it's not acceptable." The reason it's acceptable is that the library has a closed set of scenarios it's depending on, not trying to be a feature to serve general situations.
Andrew: Yes, and I don't think Domenic would object because this doesn't squat on the native namespace.
...If you have a very small library which depends on a feature, it makes more sense to ship a library. In other situations it owuld make sense to ship the polyfill if it doesn't make a difference to the size of you library.
Peter: I agree — but I'm a bit concerned that if people use 4-5 libraries, and each is subsetting some set of promises, then the end user is bringing in multiple polyfills for the same thing. Do we want to deal with that?
Andrew: That's been discussed extensively in the thread. Authors are concerned that that not happen, but it is just a trade-off. 
Travis: Could we recommend, if you're writing a substantial polyfill in your library, that you make the consumers aware of it? So they can make an informed decision when they're including libraries?
Peter: Or give them the option that if they use the polyfill, the other implementations fall away?
travis: If you bring in the official polyfill, that may trick the library into thinking the the native implementation is there.
Peter: This feels like subsetting web fonts.
Andrew: A lot of this thread is about communicating with library consumers. "Just works" mode and "raw mode" with no polyfills, or "uncompiled mode".  You'd have a choice.  I think that's a good idea.  Possible a lot of library authors would consider that too much work — but if these folks could agree a standard way of expressing that, it could be good.
Travis: I know Nolan is looking at some of this

https://github.com/w3ctag/polyfills/issues/8
Andrew: I know we discussed this in slack too. We exist to bring more insight into the standards process from underrepresented areas — comments like these can be difficult to incorporate into wider consensus.
...I think we should split this into issues and close this issue. And try to find ways to not encourage this style of discourse, which is hard for us to work with. 
Hadley: That sounds sensible
Peter: Ideally it's best for the original commenter to break them up, but they've had a couple of days... so maybe we should do it. 
Andrew: I'll take this forward with Dan.
Travis: I can be an extra pair of eyes.

Andrew: The other issues are uncontentious, I think. David, you created issue 16?
https://github.com/w3ctag/polyfills/issues/16
David: I just thought those examples could use more detail between "I did this thing" and "stuff broke". I don't know the details.
Andrew: I can look into that. It's not really material to what the finding is trying to say... just "you can read more here."
...I'll add a bit more detail.

Topic: Dates for April face to face
Peter: Set for 27-29 April in Hong Kong. Who was offering to host?
David and Travis: Maybe Google?  Needs to be confirmed. 
Peter: We are tight with the AC meeting and CSS f2f.
... Dates are fairly firm, but we can't say 100% until venue is confirmed.
Travis: developer event?
Hadley: does it depend on the city?
Andrew:  Probably. I have contacts if we stick with Hong Kong.
Travis: If we need to move it, I would prefer slightly later (1-3 May ish). But where it is is okay. We should also check for public holidays before scheduling a dev event. 

Topic: Boston f2f
Logistics page https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/tree/gh-pages/2017/02-boston
Developer event https://ti.to/bocoup/extensible-web-summit




