*TAG Teleconference – 11 July 2017 ; 15:00 UTC
Hadley, Dan, Peter, Andrew, David, Yves, Travis
Agenda: https://github.com/w3ctag/meetings/blob/gh-pages/2017/telcons/07-11-agenda.md


** EME

Hadley: Well, the director's decision has been issued. It'll be published as a recommendation. https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-html-media/2017Jul/0000.html
Yves: But it isn't yet.
Hadley:  Yep. That's about it for that topic.


** Distributed content finding

[Reviewing feedback from Martin Thompson]

[reviewing questions to ask Malte]

[questions to be circulated to Malte prior to call- please review document circulated by Andrew before Friday]

** Followup on Registries — message from the AB

andrew: We should ask the AB what was the result of their conversation at their F2F in June.
Dan: I'll take an action to check that with Jeff.

** Request from Léonie re Push API
https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2017Jun/0002.html

Dan: Let's put it in our design review repo.
Andrew: I'll do that.
Andrew: I'm very interested in this. We should humbly request a bit more time and apologise for the delay. 
Dan: We should find out if there is an accessibility issue in raising these issues in GitHub.
... I'll look again at our established procedure https://tag.w3.org/workmode/ and https://www.w3ctag.org/workmode/, to make sure we don't need to make any changes. 

<defining 'tabled'--needs standard>

** Serialisation of natural language

David: I don't think anything is concluded, and I don't know if we should discuss it on this call. 
Travis: It seems like this is combination of language metadata into a single structure... there hasn't been anything like that done in a programming language at a core level before.
David:  Interesting point.  Many programming languages don't care that much about i18n at a core level. Maybe worth asking if there are precedents in other programmign languages.
Travis: I think I'm saying: I don't see this discussion going anywhere. 
Dan: Can you put that in the issue?  Explain why not doing anything would be the best resolution right now?
Travis: Ok


** TTML2

Hadley: Nigel wants to discuss overlaps between CSS and TTML2, which I think would be useful.
Dan: Invite him to our f2f.
Hadley: will do.

** the AB suggestions for the TAG composition

Dan: To put on the agenda for our f2f
Travis: I think it's looks sensible
Hadley: I agree. But we should look at it in detail.
Peter: Would increase the membership of the TAG.
Andrew: Increases the operating cost of the TAG... 
Hadley: And the time zone game for calls...
Dan: If we want to increase the TAG, should we think about increasing the diversity?
All: worth discussing.

