TAG Teleconf 23 May 2017

Attending: Hadley, Travis, Sangwhan, Dan, Peter, David, Andrew
Extra special guest: Mike West
Apologies: Alex

# Origin policy (with ESG Mike West) (#127)

Merging of formats (web app manifest vs origin policy)
when does it make sense for there to be two vs one manifest
Naming - origin policy vs origin manifest
Mike: we could name it whatever, happy to accept that
... there is conceptual overlap between app manifest and origin policy
... but they are not scoped in the same way
... neither of the aspects of web app manifest is appropriate for origin policy
... it is imnportant for browser to know before making requests to origin
... doing CSP on an origin wide basis makes sense
... totally conceivable to join togehter into a single document, which is authoritative for that origin
Andrew: Could you combine the two informally
Mike: Yes, "frankenstein"
... it would be good if we could figure out a way to do it without tesla coils and magic
... if developers are likely to actually do this, we should do something to support it better
Peter: we noted that it IS currently possible
Mike: it might be possible to have one file that applies an origin policy to the whole origin and a manifest to just part of it
Mike: I didn't understand the discussion of suborigins
... what do you think a suborigin is, and what is it's impact on this proposal
Travis: travis.example.com?
Andrew: example.com/travis?
Mike: they are somewhat fluid.  There hasn't been a lot of participation from other vendors
... the Google security team wants it
... a suborigin allows a resource to assert that it lives in a separate origin
... Google apps often live on google.com for good reasons
... there are a number of active issues about how much value the current proposal offers
... origin policy would only apply to a top level origin but might in future provide directives for subscopes
... more discussion of this would be good
Dan: can we have an informative note to cover this issue?
Mike: there's something in the spec
Travis: HSTS?
Mike: Mnot has a 'separate but equal' proposal, I think mine is better, but we agree that we probably ought not to do this with headers
... certainly setting things for the whole origin using headers on a single response is crazy
... also HPKP (?), Network error logging (?)
Peter: may not be as extensible as headers


# Privacy Mode - Hadley

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10kulKoA6b_EWXDjzlg2DXS2vKL1NbW0NvPbcnWo5v0s/edit#gid=0 
 
Hadley: People would look at the doc defining what privacy mode means
Travis: Edge is the same as IE was, I'll continue to investigate
Sangwhan: Can we add localStorage


# TTML2 - Dan

Dan: nothing has happened on this


# Feature Policy - Andrew

Andrew: I think last week we wrapped up whether or not we should leave it open
... i think it should be closed
... nothing we can do at the moment
Travis: 7 issues filed on the spec
... should the parent be open
... concerned if closing means we forget about it
Andrew: I think we should close


# London face-to-face scheduling update?

Peter: Do we have an update on scheduling of the F2F
David: I've reserved the room
... I need to interact with the humanz
... we should have preferred dates
Dan: 25/26/27 July, because Tim can do those dates
... also we usually meet mid-week to enable travel to avoid weekends
David: OK, fine
... we will not have a ton of extra space
Dan: We need to look at a developer meetup
... maybe Campus london, we've used it in the past
... are there other options
Andrew: Where is the Mozilla location
David: London Bridge
Hadley: Metal Box Factory Suite 441, 4th floor 30 Great Guildford Street London SE1 0HS UK
Andrew: FT is walking distance, can seat 150 in the big event space
Dan: first or second night
Peter: Evening event or something bigger?
Dan: <mufffled groaning sounds>
Peter: Just asking the question
Dan: breakouts a la Boston would be good
... get the most out of an evening event format
Hadley: seconded.  If we do something longer, do it on Saturday
Dan: adv of evening weekday, not clashing with social schedules
Peter: Evening event it is, subject to space
Dan: LWS can help promote
Andrew: London Web Perf too


# Web Assembly Response API - Sangwhan, Alex, Travis (#167)

Sangwhan: We raised issues, they responded, wall of discussion
... I brought up the issue of information in the compilerror
... we could ask them to come back when they have an updated proposal
Travis: there seems controversy in our issue
Sangwhan: I'm awaiting further feedback from the group
... follow up in 1 month
Travis: people need to have confidence to build on it
David: there might be a limit to how much code you can compile synchronously
... Alex was talking about that
Sangwhan: it's shipping but they have a second milestone on the pipeline, it can still evolve


# Shared Array Buffer + Atomics - Sangwhan, David, Travis

David: we had questions about atomics, and deadlocks.
... reply was interesting
... atomic operations that can block are only available in certain contexts
... ES defines what can happen on main thread vs serice worker vs shared worker
... they've added a new property canblock, only available in regular workers, not shared workers, service workers
Travis: they took it to heart
Sangwhan: Also not available for worklets


# Web payment method manifest - David, Dan, Andrew (#162)

David: we filed 2 issues, there was another one we discussed - indirection in manifest retrieval
... do we want to file an issue on this
Travis: thinking back to origin policy, I like options 2 and 3
... the URL should go directly, or should be well-known
Andrew: direct URL seems good to me, KISS
Travis: Can we put all payment method definitions from a single origin in one file?
Andrew: seems unnecessary limit on scale
Travis: OK we're homing in on number 2
Andrew: can we raise an issue on their repo suggesting that?
David: I'll do that (nominated by Travis!)

# Review Offscreen Canvas - Sangwhan, David, Travis
# Spec style/structure checklist - Alex
# Cross spec device identification - Travis
