TAG Telcon 2017-03-01

Present: Peter, Yves, David, Alex, Travis, Andrew (partial)

Regrets: Hadley, Dan

Scribe: David



Topics

	* Revisit weekly call time http://doodle.com/poll/kqe3zuyef4i2aybr
	* EVERYBODY PLEASE FILL OUT THE DOODLE!


	* Media Session https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/149
	* Travis: time sensitive.  But didn't get that done with snow here.
	* Peter: so punt to next week?
	* Travis: second assignee?
	* Alex: add me


	* Media Capture DOM Element https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/130
	* Peter: same state?
	* Travis: yeah.  Likely fine, but haven't actually looked yet.
	* Alex: let's just look now
	* Alex: how are errors reported?  e.g., captureStream that's reected due to EME content?
	* Travis: never errors, but get events that muted or disabled, can get renabled over time
	* Travis: I think it's not suposed to fail outright.
	* Alex: How does error get handled if ask for frame rate that's not supported?
	* ?: throw
	* Alex: wondering if this has to be synchronous?
	* Alex: is there a case where you'd want to ask the user whether you should be allowed to do this?
	* Travis: user media function is async and takes all sorts of configuration options
	* Alex: it's very constrained
	* Alex: do they have an explainer?  Don't see one.
	* Travis: only parameter is a double frameRequestRate.  Maybe should be a dictionary in case they need more params later, and maybe needs to be asynchronous just in case?
	* Alex: I'd feel better if this just returned a Promise, instead of (throwing)?.
	* Alex: CanvasCaptureMediaStreamTrack is what's returned if you call this on a canvas?
	* Travis: No, if you're looking at the media stream, and you enumerate its tracks, can look and request a frame
	* Alex: Why is that specific to canvas?
	* Travis: <reads>  If you look back at captureStream, note about how algorithm results in a captured track not starting until something changes in a canvas.  Maybe requestFrame is a way of triggering that to start?
	* Alex: that's weird
	* Travis: start capturing is the effect
	* Alex: This needs an explainer document.  Design decisions might make sense, but impossible to tell right now
	* Alex:  (something about writing up)? I'll ping Miguel and ask him specifically about some of these issues.


	* Performance APIs https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/120
	* Peter: assigned to me, haven't take a look yet.  Need to get Ilya to one of our calls
	* Alex: next week?


	* Remote Playback API https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/145
	* Travis: Doesn't seem like any progress on this.  I haven't looked at it.
	* Travis: This is the casting spec, right?
	* Alex: yeah.  We spent some time trying to understand variants:  remote playback, second screen, media session stuff.  The three have some overlap.
	* Alex: I don't think this requires ..   I've talked to some engineers on our side implementing this stuff.  Sounds like this is very much built with needs of low-end playback only devices in mind.  Assumption is controlling from a different device and sending a stream of media, and it can't do much more more than that.  It's not clear how much these devices can handle higher-level stuff.  Open design question.  Do we want to ask them to go back and redesign with regard to whole bag of potential things all in one api, or is this fine?  I don't see how these are layered at all, which gives me a spidey sense, but I don't see what would be better.
	* Travis: I'd recommend we give this a little more investigation on a later call.
	* Peter: Just spend time, or invite someone to talk about it?
	* Travis: Do they have explainer?
	* Peter: Have use cases and intro and examples in spec.
	* Travis: but wouldn't hurt to get dom on the call.
	* Peter: happy to send invitation if that's what we want to do
	* Travis: I'd need to at least be more familiar with the doc before we had dom on the call.  I'd like to get through it and then decide if we need more info.
	* Peter: reschedule for next week?
	* Travis: busy next week.  Maybe week after?
	* Peter: ok, 15th.


	* Custom Paint https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/140
	* Travis: Where did we leave this?
	* David: a bunch offeedback addressed a little more than a week ago, meant to go through for this week but didn't get to
	* Travis: punt to next week?


	* MediaStream Image Capture https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/133
	* <Travis skims his old comments>
	* Travis: some followup I need to do on initial review.  Have issues  filed in their repo.  I did look at those issues, I think.  Let me click through...
	* Travis: some feedback redirected to existing issues that they're going through.  I think what we want to do with this one -- open to suggestions -- I think ball is in their court right now to make updates and changes to spec.  I don't want to close TAG issue b/c I think we need to revisit it later.  I think they're still working through issues.
	* < a little lost due to etherpad disconnect>
	* schedule for three months.
	* Travis: We'll probably see it at next face-to-face.  Let's just schedule it for then?


	* Process improvements postmortem
	* Peter: wait for more folks for this?

