*TAG Teleconference â€“ 20 June 2017

Present: Dan, Peter, Yves, Sangwhan, David, Hadley, Andrew

	* London face-to-face: Dev meet-up confirmed

DKA: Venue and time confirmed, I think we might be able to do something simple this time around
Can everyone chime in on the chat if they have any ideas?
We might not be able to a breakout this time, so I was thinking about just a panel and Q&A
and maybe focus on a couple different topics
e.g. Hadley talks about private browsing
We can come up with a agenda later, but think we should exchange ideas

	* Privacy Mode - Hadley (have people updated the spreadsheet as requested?)

Peter: Any updates?
Hadley: It's time for me to start writing blog posts on this

	* Web Payment Manifest - David / Andrew

David: We had the discussion about not liking the indirection manifest
I filed an issue on their repo, not much discussion there
One extra comment Zack raised about the manifests
Peter: How does it work without a manifest?
David: I think the assumption is that a custom payment method is that it connects to a native app
but the browser knows about,
Andrew: I think we should ask an explanation on how that would work
I think we should ask them to follow up on David's inquiry

<revisiting>

Andrew: The point that Zack raised about our suggestion 2 is more error prone
I want to follow up and clarify

	* With-credentials flag - Yves

Yves: I filed issue on the fetch GH tracker, think it'd be best to ask webappsec to follow up on this
the solution that we discussed doesn't seem to be complete
so instead of trying to do a complete solution here, think we should pass it on to webappsec
Peter: So what should we do, file issues?
Yves: Yes

(Set milestone to F2F)

	* Serialization of natural language in data formats - David

David: There was some discussion, I'm a bit concerned - neither of the suggestions are optimal
I should try to make the discussion progress a bit
DKA: Should we setup a TFT or something like that?

<no input>

Sangwhan: It's either a breaking change that looks reasonable but won't work in practice as it is a breaking change
or a non-breaking change that looks pretty strange
Peter: Should we invite them for a call?
Could do in a future call or during the F2F

(David to set milestone)

	* WebAssembly Response API - Sangwhan, Alex, Travis

Sangwhan: So I did follow up on this - a potential use case for compile errors is when there is a service worker that 
rewrites the webasm bytecode (intentionally or unintentionally) and whether that is a common use case I am not sure.
I commented on this 28 days ago and haven't heard back - should I follow up on their issue tracker about this?
DKA: Yes

(Sangwhan to nudge the WebASM WG)

Finding:
    
Andrew: I think it'll be easier to wrap this up at the F2F, I think the only thing worth discussing right now
and when I published it there was a response from the AMP team - not sure what this is supposed to mean
DKA: I discussed this with Mark Nottingham and Martin Thomson during HTTP workshop and they had some feedback

(Andrew to get in touch with Martin about this)

Andrew: There has been discussions about standardizing AMP, don't think it changes how we approach it
but having a finding will probably be a good reference 

Web Share API

Sangwhan: There was something that popped up in the web share review ticket today, which was about relative URLs.
When the spec was reviewed, it didn't specify what would happen shen a share() is requested with a relative URL, but
it was implemented in Chrome so they just specified that in the spec. I don't think this needs to be re-opened as it seems
like a straightforward change.

David: SGTM

(Leave closed)

Triage:

Peter: Couple more things in the review queue, triage?

For next week: (owners not present)
    
	* Spec style/structure checklist - Alex
	* Off-Screen Canvas - Travis

Current Issues:
	* 
Still pending:
	* TTML2 - Dan
*Logistics
Chair: Peter
Scribe: ?
IRC : irc.w3.org / #tagmem
Trying https://appear.in/w3ctagpro first then going to https://meet.jit.si/w3ctag if that doesn't work
Please note: this meeting is open to TAG members and invited guests. If you would like to participate, please email the chairs.
Raw minutes: https://pad.w3ctag.org/p/2017-06-20-minutes.md
