### TAG f2f
#### 8 Jan 2015 - NYC - Google - Earth

#### Present: Alex, Sergey, Yves, Domenic, Tim, Mark, Peter, Jeni, Dan
#### Regrets: Yehuda
#### Special Guest: Brian Kardell

#### Chair: Dan
#### Scribe: Sergey

#### Topics:
- <a href="#elections">Elections</a>
- <a href="#reportcard">Report Card</a>
- <a href="#practices">TAG Working Practices</a>
- <a href="#reviews">Spec Reviews Review</a>

---

<a name="elections"></a>
#### Topic: Elections

[Funny jokes]

<a name="reportcard"></a>
#### Topic: Extensible Web Report Card 

https://extensiblewebreportcard.org

bkardell: Lots of questions.

bkardell: There are lots of non-technical stuff, do we want to comment?

bkardell: We are trying to involve developers at a huge scale, but how?

bkardell: Last time I suggested to reach universities and colleges.

bkardell: We have some progress with commenting Extensible Web Card

[discussion on our intentions]

Domenic: great example is jQuery blog, they did that before Extensible Web Manifesto

[discussion on the role of vendors]
[video API as an example]

bkardell: The problem is how we manage this

dka: We had this discussion yesterday at Developers Meetup and previously at TPAC. What tools could W3C provide to developers to have better results, to have ideas implemented earlier.

bkardell: People don't track W3C activity. Where could they find proposed ideas, polyfills and contribute code?

[discussion on W3C role in the process]

[discussion on how to make participation more friendly]

dka: There are people with expertise in some areas (like WebAudio) but they have no experince with W3C tools and they might not understand how to use them.

bkardell: We also want people to make experiments. For example, some companies don't use Web Components since they're not standards

Alex: that's normal, some things are part of user space, not platform; they could eventually become a part of future HTML standard.

[side notes on DLL hell and future battles between lots of UI elements implementations]

Alex: this diversity exists right now so there is really no difference.

[side discussion on new tags]

[extensible web ecology?]

Alex: at least we now have some insight regarding what's happening within custom user components, could somehow crawl them, etc.

dka: Seems like it's a TAG agenda item to sort that chaos out.

[back to extensible web]

bkardell: there is difference between standard (it's free!), proposals with polyfills, and just experiments.

Domenic: I don't think it's a good idea to say ‘hey, we think this library will become a standard’.

Domenic: One thing we agree is that polyfills should be more visible, should become a part of culture. We should reach a situation when each proposal goes with either a polyfill or an explanation why it's not polyfillable. And if it's not, it's a sign that a platform lack some extensibility.

dka: is there any concrete action we can do?

Domenic: we could encourage process, we could write findings saying ‘these features are good examples, do the same’.

https://code.stypi.com/domenic/Extensible%20Web%20Report%20Card.md

Domenic: Need. More. Text.

[populating the document]

On suggestion of Brian, have added an issue on JSON form submission to the spec review list: https://github.com/w3ctag/spec-reviews/issues/40

<a name="practices"></a>
#### Topic: TAG Working Practices

[discussion Github vs. maillists vs. Specifiction]

[mnot is proposing moving everything to Github]

[discussion about hosting options]

[mnot's observations regarding Phone Calls vs F2F efficiency]

mnot: let mailing list be a reservoir of unstructured discussion, and Github contain a structured work.

[moving to topic-based calls?]

[JeniT proposes to focus on output]

Agreed:
- calls at 15:00 Zakim time
- output-focused calls
- canceling if there is to nopic
- topics are driven by members: ‘I made progress on <XYZ>, like to get feedback’
- one-day meeting at TPAC

<a name="reviews"></a>
#### Topic: Spec Review Review

[we went through our reviews in github and updated / added as necessary]

<SO META>

Adjourned.